Structural economics can provide a framework for describing and evaluating alternative approaches to environmentally-sound economic development. This structural approach is concerned with physical stocks and flows, including those of natural resources and waste products, and with technological choices, as well as the corresponding costs and prices which are often practically the exclusive focus of the economist's attention. These can all be analyzed using so-called input-output models, and corresponding input-output databases, which have been built for many individual economies and for the world economy as a whole. Industrial ecology is an expanded version of life-cycle engineering which provides a coherent and powerful set of ideas for reducing pollution. Industrial ecology will probably be applied first in affluent, developed countries. Industrial ecology calls for a systematic approach to modifying economic activities in order to substantially reduce the generation of wastes at each stage of production or use. In addition to reducing their own pollution, however, the developed countries will also have to provide assistance for economic development in the South that has a relatively low impact on the environment. This assistance could take the form of a "Marshall Plan" for investing heavily in a package of environmentally-sound development options. It could also take the form of substantial reform to the conventions now governing international trade in order to remove barriers to developing countries' exports of processed raw materials and manufactured goods based on these inputs. Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) is a double-stranded DNA virus that expresses several immediate-early genes under the control of different promoters. The expression of one of these transcription units, IE-N, is shown here, by a transient expression assay, to be regulated by both cis- and trans-acting viral elements. The steady-state levels of IE-N mRNA were very abundant soon after infection but were nearly undetectable during the late phase of the viral life cycle. Analysis of the transient expression of a reporter construct driven by the IE-N promoter (IE-NCAT) was conducted to define viral elements which regulate IE-N gene expression. Viral enhancer hr1 and two immediate-early genes, IE-1 and IE-N, were shown to affect relative levels of reporter enzyme activity produced by IE-NCAT. The hr1 enhancer stimulated the expression of IE-NCAT, independent of orientation and position relative to the promoter and in the absence of any trans-acting viral factors. Regulation of IE-NCAT expression by the IE-1 and IE-N genes required less than 290 bp of promoter sequences upstream of the site of transcription initiation and was not dependent upon the hr1 enhancer. Coexpression of the IE-N gene had an autostimulatory effect upon IE-NCAT activity, whereas coexpression of the IE-1 gene reduced levels of reporter activity. The levels of reporter activity measured upon coexpression of either immediate-early gene with IE-NCAT linked to the hr1 enhancer appear to be the combined result of both cis- and trans-regulatory elements influencing expression from IE-NCAT. These results suggest that IE-N gene expression in baculovirus infection may be influenced by the concerted activity of three AcMNPV regulatory elements.
 The greenhouse effect is intrinsically global. Accordingly, effective responses require global coordination. While limited policies have been adopted, notably for phasing out chlorofluorocarbons, there is no clear consensus as to what to do about other greenhouse gases. In this paper, we survey attitudes and policy responses among the nations of the world. Public opinion surveys are consistent in showing that considerable sensitivity to environmental issues exists virtually everywhere. On the other hand, there is acute awareness that other issues, especially economic development, can conflict with global climate-change mitigation goals. In such a state of uncertainty there is a strong argument to be made for implementing policies which are good ideas independent of greenhouse-gas considerations. There is also good reason to expand research. What is feasible depends strongly on present and changing attitudes of the citizens of the world, and of their governments. It is thus critical to follow closely the evolution of attitudes. The kind of work summarized in this paper needs to be updated on a continuing basis, and the results made available routinely to the global policy community. We conclude our review with several recommendations for research designed specifically to reduce uncertainty about costs and institutional issues relating to responses to global climate change. Industrial ecology is a new approach to the industrial design of products and processes and the implementation of sustainable manufacturing strategies. It is a concept in which an industrial system is viewed not in isolation from its surrounding systems but in concert with them. Industrial ecology seeks to optimize the total materials cycle from virgin material to finished material, to component, to product, to waste product, and to ultimate disposal. To better characterize the topic, the National Academy of Sciences convened a colloquium from which were derived a number of salient contributions. This paper sets the stage for the contributions that follow and discusses how each fits into the framework of industrial ecology.Industrial ecology addresses issues that will impact future production, use, and disposal technologies; proper use of the concept should reduce significantly the resources devoted to potential remediation in the future. This cradle-to-reincarnation production philosophy includes industrial processes that are environmentally sound and products that are environmentally safe during use and economically recyclable after use without adverse impact on the environment or on the net cost to society. This will require an industry-university-government round table to set the strategy and agenda for progress.By analogy with natural ecosystems, an industrial ecology system, in addition to minimizing waste production in processes, would maximize the economical use of waste materials and of products at the ends of their lives as inputs to other processes and industries. This possibility can be made real only if a number of potential problems can be solved. These include the design of wastes along with the design of products and processes, the economics of such a system, the internalizing of the costs of waste disposal to the design and choice of processes and products, the effects of regulations intended for other purposes, and problems of responsibility and liabil
ity. The various stakeholders in making the effects of industry on the environment more benign will need to adopt some new behaviors if the possibility is to become real.The concept of "industrial economic metabolism" can provide a bridge to better understanding between environmentalists and industry. In nature each individual or species reacts to natural stimuli, competing with others for resources, extending its domain until it loses comparative advantage and comes to equilibrium with an adjacent competitor. Those species that succeed over time flourish; those that do not, diminish or disappear. Nature's rule book has no moral or ethical ingredient beyond self-interest. Corporate metabolisms are remarkably similar to those of nature. They too react to stimuli, collect and use resources, and grow or perish based on how effectively they compete. Corporate management recognizes and responds naturally and efficiently to cost and price signals. Through them it selects resources and converts them into useful products. The efficiency with which this is done is measured by profit, the lifeblood of the corporation and its means of growth. Profit thus provides a discipline on corporate behavior, encouraging efficient performers, and, by its absence, weeding out others. Unfettered by influences other than economics, the path to corporate success is unlikely to be a compassionate one. The dilemma of the manager is that to do what is socially "right" often conflicts with what must be done to survive and prosper. Fortunately, corporations' behavior can be altered by society when their purely economic role comes into conflict with other human values. The environment and the economy are not separate systems but intertwined to form a complex natural and social setting. The human-designed economic system depends on natural resource inputs, and in turn its metabolic wastes can overload the ecological system, threatening the long-term survivability of both. Increasing concern for the environment now gives the farsighted manager new latitude. There are competitive benefits in some pollution prevention. But there are not sufficiently strong forces to correct all current ills. In addition, we must harness the metabolism of the industrial world to the realities of the natural one by recognizing the immense value of depletable natural resources and ecosystems. Considering these resources as "cheap" or "free" encourages their overuse. What is needed are adjustments that price these resources at their true long-term value. Corporations will respond naturally, quickly, and efficiently to such signals. If we can send our metabolic industry the economic signals it can understand, we can retrofit our human economic system to live in harmony with the natural ecosystem of which we are a part. If we do not, nature assuredly will not accommodate our failure by changing its ways.Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are currently used in systems for preservation of perishable foods and medical supplies, increasing worker productivity and consumer comfort, conserving energy and increasing product reliability. As use of CFCs is phased out due to concerns of ozone depletion, a variety of new chemicals and technologies will be needed to serve these needs. In choosing alternatives, industry must balance concerns over safety and environmental acceptability and still meet the performance c
haracteristics of the current CFC-based products. About 60% of projected CFC demand will either be eliminated by improved conservation practices or will be satisfied by nonfluorocarbon alternatives. With current technology, the only viable alternatives meeting the safety, performance, and environmental requirements for the remaining 40% of demand are fluorocarbons, hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). HCFCs and HFCs possess many of the desirable properties of the CFCs, but because of the, hydrogen, they react with hydroxyl in the lower atmosphere. This results in shorter atmospheric lifetimes compared to CFCs and reduces their potential to contribute to stratospheric ozone depletion or global warming; HFCs do not contain chlorine and have no potential to destroy ozone. This paper provides an overview of challenges faced by industry, regulators, and society in general in continuing to meet societal needs and consumer demands while reducing risk to the environment without compromising consumer or worker safety.Until quite recently, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) had been considered the safest and most benign of industrial chemicals. Their physical and chemical properties made them an integral part of manufacturing processes for electronics products. The recognition that CFCs destroy the stratospheric ozone layer, with consequent enormous consequences to all forms of life on earth, has led to international agreements which will end virtually all production of these materials by the end of the century and possibly before. This impending phaseout of CFCs has caused electronics manufacturers to examine alternative chemicals and processing methods. This manuscript documents the steps AT&T has taken to reach its goal of 100% phaseout of CFCs by year-end 1994. These actions include top-down management support with combined bottom-up thrusts, an internal information gathering and dissemination center, internal technology transfer, and external corporate activism.Long-term ecological sustainability is incompatible with an open materials cycle. The toxic heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, lead, mercury, silver, uranium/plutonium, zinc) exemplify the problem. These metals are being mobilized and dispersed into the environment by industrial activity at a rate far higher than by natural processes. Apart from losses to the environment resulting from mine wastes and primary processing, many of these metals are utilized in products that are inherently dissipative. Examples of such uses include fuels, lubricants, solvents, fire retardants, stabilizers, flocculants, pigments, biocides, and preservatives. To close the materials cycle, it will be necessary to accomplish two things. The first is to ban or otherwise discourage (e.g., by means of high severance taxes on virgin materials) dissipative uses of the above type. The second is to increase the efficiency of recycling of those materials that are not replaceable in principle. Here, also, economic instruments (such as returnable deposits) can be effective in some cases. A systems view of the problem is essential to assess the cost and effectiveness of alternative strategies.In the manufacture of chemical feedstocks and subsequent processing into derivatives and materials, the U. S. chemical industry sets the current standard of excellence for technological competitiven
ess. This world-class leadership is attributed to the innovation and advancement of chemical engineering process technology. Whether this status is sustained over the next decade depends strongly on meeting increasingly demanding challenges stimulated by growing concerns about the safe production and use of chemicals without harmful impacts on the environment. To comply with stringent environmental regulations while remaining economically competitive, industry must exploit alternative benign starting materials and develop environmentally neutral industrial processes. Opportunities are described for development of environmentally compatible alternatives and substitutes for some of the most abundantly produced. potentially hazardous industrial chemicals now labeled as " high-priority toxic chemicals. For several other uniquely important commodity chemicals where no economically competitive, environmentally satisfactory, nontoxic alternative starting material exists. We advocate the development of new dynamic processes for the on-demand generation of toxic chemicals. In this general concept, which obviates mass storage and transportation of chemicals, toxic raw materials are produced in real time, where possible, from less-hazardous starting materials and then chemically transformed immediately into the final product. As a selected example for semiconductor technology, recent progress is reviewed for the on-demand production of arsine in turnkey electrochemical generators. Innovation of on-demand chemical generators and alternative processes provide rich areas for environmentally responsive chemical engineering processing research and development for next-generation technology.The potential for improved industrial efficiency is great and a substantial part of that potential is being realized in the course of events. With new technology and increasing affluence, the composition of production is changing such that energy and materials consumption is growing more slowly than the economy. Through new technologies and appropriate public policies, the energy intensities of all production processes should also continue to decline. Potential difficulties facing this relatively rosy scenario are also discussed.EPA's (Environmental Protection Agency) Green Lights Program for energy-efficient lighting illustrates the economic benefits and the market-transforming value of a pollution prevention philosophy. Using technologies available today, and assuming current prices, this program is expected to reduce air pollution 5 %, while saving the nation's businesses up to $20 billion in electric bills every year. However, these pollution prevention and savings estimates may be low. As Green Lights transforms the market for lighting services by creating a higher demand for better technologies at lower costs. the program will likely achieve even larger pollution reductions and electricity savings.The disposal of polymer solid waste by means other than landfilling is necessary. The various approaches-source reduction, incineration, degradation, composting, and recycling-all have their roles and must be employed in an integrated manner. Where appropriate, recycling has ecological advantages, but its application is dependent upon the feasibility of collection, sorting, and/or compatibilization of resulting mixtures to produce economically viable products. The pract
ice should be encouraged by societal or legislative pressure which recognizes that the cost of disposal should be a factor in determining the cost of a product.Interest in biodegradable plastics made from renewable resources has increased significantly in recent years. PHBV (polyhydroxybutyrate-polyhydroxyvalerate) copolymers are good examples of this type of materials. This paper provides an overview of the manufacturing process, properties, biodegradability, and application/commercial issues associated with PHBV copolymers. They are naturally produced by bacteria from agricultural raw materials, and they can be processed to make a variety of useful products, where their biodegradability and naturalness are quite beneficial. PHBV copolymers are still in the first stage of commercialization. But they are presented in this paper as an example of how new technology can help meet society's needs for plastics and a clean environment.Economies are sometimes viewed as analogous to ecological systems in which "everything is connected to everything else." In complex modern economics, the question arises whether the market mechanism can appropriately coordinate all the interconnections or whether instead some supramarket body is needed to coordinate the vast web of human activities. This study describes how an idealized decentralized competitive market in fact coordinates the different economic organisms in an efficient manner. The problems of pollution and other externalities can undo the efficient outcome unless corrected by appropriate property rights or corrective taxes. But in closing the economic circle, the internalized economy does not actually need to close the natural cycles by linking up all physical flows through recycling.Industrial ecology will need to develop fundamentally new approaches to reducing, reusing, and recycling wastes. Industrial ecology will also require an analytic framework for examining the implications for the economic system as a whole of each potential web of industrial changes. A suitable framework is furnished by structural economics, which situates the economy within the physical world. This approach is based on dynamic analysis rather than static concepts of equilibrium, and optimization assumptions are used selectively rather than as the general solution mechanism. Input-output economics, an important formal model within structural economics, can trace the stocks and flows of energy and other materials from extraction through production and consumption to recycling or disposal. An input-output computation, including wastes. is presented; it illustrates the separate but integrated analysis of physical stocks and flows and of prices and costs. This paper also describes the major advances that have been made in the last decade in the extension of input-output economics to address increasingly complex questions, notably the fully dynamic physical/price/income model and the engineering/input-output data base. Economists need to be able to assess the costs of cleaning up and to develop incentive schemes to increase the likelihood this will happen. To do this, economists need to take on the difficult "how" questions that concern industrial ecologists since the cost, and indeed the wider implications, of cleaning up depends upon how it is done. Structural economics, and modern input-output models and data bases, in p
articular, can help meet this challenge.This report first briefly reviews the history and lessons learned from our legislation regarding protection of our environment. Then, these lessons are combined with principles of general jurisprudence to suggest avenues for regulation of industrial ecology. Even though the law has important limitations, it can be used as a tool to identify national goals and to promote their achievement by means of incentives or sanctions.Carcinogenic risk assessments are based on extrapolating from high-dose chronic rodent-feeding studies to human-exposure levels. A serious problem is that about half of all substances tested at their respective maximum tolerated dose (MTD) are found to induce cancer. The MTD as currently defined has been criticized because it may stimulate cell proliferation in susceptible tissues. Such chemically induced mitogenesis is postulated to increase the probability that neoplasia will develop at the affected site. It is proposed that, in the development of an MTD for a given substance, chemically induced mitogenesis be considered an undesirable toxic manifestation. Hence, mitogenesis should not be induced by a substance fed at its true MTD. Since MTDs determined in this fashion are likely to be lower than those developed using current criteria, an added level of protection is introduced by employing a safety factor similar to that used now in determining acceptable daily intakes for noncarcinogenic food additives. In calculating acceptable daily intakes, the usual safety factor is 100; i.e., the acceptable daily intake is set at 1% of the no-observed-effect level. Hence it is proposed that the acceptable daily level of exposure to a substance that does not induce cancer at its MTD as defined herein be set at 1 % of that MTD. On the other hand, a chemical that induces cancer at its MTD as defined herein would continue to be regulated as is customary now.For industrial ecology to become a reality and flourish, many talents must be integrated into a single system. Basically, there are four types of technologists who must be brought together to create a system: (i) technical specialist those that can take the state of knowledge to the state of the art and eventually to the state of practice; (ii) technical "generalists" those that can integrate diverse technologies into a comprehensive solution; (iii) technical managers-those that can lead technical efforts to an optimal solution (these people must have management skills in their area); and (iv) program managers-those that can understand and merge the overall efforts of technology, business, schedule, and finance. The initial questions for industrial ecology in the 1990s are: Do these people presently exist in industry? What will be needed to bring new people (recent graduates) into the field of industrial ecology? For this decade, the people who will develop and lead the concept of industrial ecology are presently in industry. However, certainly few, if any, today understand the concept of industrial ecology as a system issue. Training will be needed for these practitioners of the 1990s so that the overall goal and the mechanism for achieving industrial ecology are understood. A three-tiered approach is presented to define the education/training needed, to conduct training on an industry basis, and then to initiate the training to be done w
ithin a corporation. The three tiers propose the use of universities. professional societies, and industry groups. Having universities participate in the training of the 1990s industrial ecologists will give universities insight to the development of industrial ecology, and access to industry needs so that curriculum can be initiated to educate the industrial ecologists of the future.The need for a new profession devoted to environmental matters is asserted. The qualities of such a profession are sketched, and it is argued that new initiatives in environmental education are needed in the form of graduate, professional programs with primary emphasis on practice. An example 2-year program is presented. A fundamental requirement is scientific competence, undergraduate preparation in the sciences or engineering is mandatory. The graduate curriculum itself is built on three primary cores: environmental science and engineering, business and management, and public policy. Additionally, an environmental round table is proposed as a focal point for academic, industrial, governmental, and public discussion on environmental matters. The round table would provide oversight for the professional educational program and an affiliated research institute.The societal issues relevant to the subject of industrial ecology call for the participation of broadly educated engineers who can integrate their technology with the social, political, environmental, and economic aspects of its applications. This increase in the responsibility of traditional engineering to include the end-use, obsolescence, and disposition of technical products signals a new era for engineering education.Transitions in dealing with the root causes of environmental problems are advocated to achieve environmental sustainability. These transformations include (i) a demographic transition, (ii) a technology transition that includes the "green" automobile, (iii) an economic transition to one in which prices reflect full environmental costs, (iv) a transition in social equity, and (v) an institutional transition to different arrangements among governments, businesses, and peoples. Businessmen and environmentalists are urged to work together in the next decade to make the environment a personal issue, to call for government action, to recognize the environmental challenges, and to commit to accountability in order to leave a legacy of hope to the twenty-first century.Pollution is a complex equation, compounded by population, rate of consumption, and toxic emissions per unit of resource consumed. This article defines industrial ecology as a management science that focuses a corporation's expertise on the third variable. Thus, industrial ecology is involved with changing the efficiency of machines, not just changing the law or a firm's compliance strategy. This article also explores how this emphasis allows a profoundly different orientation than the end-of-the-pipe regulatory approach of the last 20 yr.Industrial ecology is the network of all industrial processes as they may interact with each other and live off each other, not only in the economic sense, but also in the sense of direct use of each other's material and energy wastes and products. This paper, which reflects upon the papers and discussions at the National Academy of Sciences Colloquium on Industrial Ecology on May 20-21, 1991, is 
structured around 10 questions. Do sociotechnical systems have long-range environmental goals? How is the concept of industrial ecology useful and timely? What are environmental technologies" Is there a systematic way to choose among alternatives for improving the ecology of technologies? What are ways to measure performance with respect to industrial ecology? What are the sources and rates of innovation in environmental technologies? How is the market economy performing with respect to industrial ecology? What will be the effect of the ecological modernization of the developed nations of the North on the developing countries of the South? How can creative interaction on environmental issues be fostered among diverse social groups? How must research and education change? The last 20 years have seen a marked increase in environmental policy as a strategic tool in corporate policy. World class manufacturers in particular have woven environmenta concerns into their corporate culture, their marketing strategies and their operations, to great effect. What they are finding is that waste reduction techniques, life cycle analysis and cradle-to-grave concern in the design process yield unexpected rewards. A case in point is Kodak, a study of which reveals the many benefits available to a company that wholly integrates environmental concerns into its corporate mandate.Environmental as well as economic policy decisions may be supported effectively by means of ecobalancing procedures which compare products, processes, systems or services comprehensively to find alternatives with less environmental burden. Ecological indicator categories to be considered in a future standard procedure of ecobalancing are described and examples are given.Recently there has been a fundamental shift in the way large companies think about their corporate missions. Prior to the 1970s, most companies were simply concerned with profitability. In the past two decades, a new management concept appeared and included high-performance, total quality management with a higher awareness of social and environmental responsibility. These concepts were also coupled with an increased awareness of the demand for a cleaner environment, the higher cost of energy, and a scarcity of some natural resources. Recent surveys have shown that most people want to protect the environment, even if they have to pay higher prices. This verdict from public opinion polling indicates that the manufacturing industry has to look carefully at the impact of its operations and products on the environment if the industry is to maintain market share and, in some extreme cases, stay in business. To meet this challenge, the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) was introduced to examine the environmental impact of a product from its birth in the R&D laboratory through manufacturing and marketing to its ''ultimate fate'' after the completion of its useful life. A great need now exists for the development and application of an analytical methodology for LCA that could be acceptable to the business community, the regulating agencies, and the public at large. LCA is an effective tool that can be used to reduce environmental stresses and potential depletion of our natural resources. Most environmental economists and policy analysts believe that people in the United States, as well as in other industrialized countries, have grossly
 underestimated the value of environmental resources, therefore inducing tremendous levels of stress on and abuse of air, water, and land resources, as well as mineral and energy reserves. A true accounting of the monetary and non-monetary costs associated with the total life of products will undoubtedly raise the level of awareness. A level of commitment to achieve our ultimate goal of environmentally sustainable development will depend on programs such as life cycle management of products and responsible care. This program, in turn, will allow future generations to meet their own needs. The great challenges of the 1990s must include making significant strides toward clean technology and pollution prevention and managing our production and consumption of products in a manner that meets the concepts of sustainable development and responsible care toward the environment. This paper addresses the critical issues related to the application of LCA as a tool for working toward meeting these goals.Four essential components are highlighted which must be considered when attempting to ecologically restructure economies: cradle to grave analysis of goods and services, ecological guidelines and indicators, the market focus of policies, and true cost pricing of goods and services.Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is a method which allows the development of objective criteria and procedures for the assessment of the environmental impacts of products, based on the total life cycle of the product (from cradle to grave). Packaging materials are taken as an example in order to demonstrate the principle of "eco-balancing" or comparing different products which fulfil the same function. This comparative assessment is the real strength of LCA. The criteria to be used are described and a general way of performing an LCA is presented. As an example, different packaging used for milk is analysed by means of LCA and eco-balancing.The concept of product life-cycle assessment is described and its application to pollution prevention and product stewardship programs is discussed.
 The potential for natural C sinks to be manipulated by human means to mitigate climate change has been discussed in the environmental literature for more than a decade. There now appears to be little doubt that changes in global land-use and land management practices could significantly slow the accumulation of CO2 in the atmosphere. As a result, some forward-thinking companies and governmental bodies are acting now upon the biotic mitigation literature by developing actual mitigation projects. It is now national policy in the United States to encourage such activities. The future of C offsets, however, is unclear, due in large measure to lagging scientific knowledge. Large-scale private action likely will await regulatory signals that action will be accepted as a legitimate mitigation measure, perhaps providing retroactive regulatory credit, a source of tradeable emission entitlements, or credit against yet-to-be-established C taxes. The practical potential of most biotic mitigation approaches is unknown, and the entire concept remains subject to political challenge domestically and abroad. The ability to predict C benefits of individual mitigation projects is often tenuous and subject to debate. To allow expansion of C offset practices as quickly as possible, and hopefully to fund projects with many ancillary environmental and economic benefits, policymakers and project developers desperately need physical and social science data to be provided in a useable form.The author discusses factors likely to affect Indonesia's participation in global climate change mitigation negotiations. These include Indonesia's performance to date in the international arena and its track record for compliance with agreements; domestic challenges such as demographic pressures, economic growth, deforestation, and energy consumption; the institutional culture of the government; and the activities and limitations of the legal system, non-governmental organizations, and business. The author concludes that, while the Indonesian government may be a vocal advocate for 'sustainable development', it has little ability to follow through on large-scale commitments to international efforts because of issues It faces at home. Flexible polyurethane foams were prepared using naturally-derived materials as alternatives to conventional auxiliary blowing agents. This research was based on the concept held by some that natural chemicals are better as a part of industrial ecology. The authors have attempted to define the foam manufacturing suitability of natural chemicals, but have not defined or defended the policy implications of such choices. Natural chemicals are often less suitable than those refined from petroleum and may then need some environmental credit related to greater discharge to be viable substitutes. Modest decreases in density (relative to foams without any auxiliary blowing agent) were obtained with the addition of solid CO2, but other physical properties were not measured. It is unclear whether the reduction in density is a result of the phase change of CO2 from solid to liquid within the polyurethane cell matrix or simply a bubbling effect of CO2 in solution causing voids within the final product. Although it was anticipated that the high boiling point of limonene, from citrus peels, would negate effectiveness as an auxiliary blowing agent, there were anal
ogous decreases in foam density. The observed effect might be rationalized by the significant vapor pressure of limonene at temperatures lower than the boiling point. The limonene may be swept from the foam system coincident with the loss of in situ generated CO2. Isoprene, naturally emitted from deciduous vegetation as well as from the combustion of carbonaceous fuels, provides a useful, if not complete, range of foam densities and may then be a partial substitute for halogenated auxiliary blowing agents. Switching from methylene chloride to isoprene as the auxiliary blowing agent of choice would immediately decrease organic emissions from polyurethane foam plants by 20 percent (molecular weight effect). Regulation as a VOC and the residual acrid odor may be potential drawbacks to commercial utilization of isoprene. The functions of packaging are derived from product requirements, thus for insight into the environmental effects of packaging the actual combination of product and package has to be evaluated along the production and distribution system. This extension to all related environmental aspects adds realism to the environmental analysis and provides guidance for design while preventing a too detailed investigation of parts of the production system. This approach is contrary to current environmental studies where packaging is always treated as an independent object, neglecting the more important environmental effects of the product that are influenced by packaging. The general analysis and quantification stages for this approach are described, and the currently available methods for the assessment of environmental effects are reviewed. To limit the workload involved in an environmental assessment, a step-by-step analysis and the use of feedback is recommended. First the dominant environmental effects of a particular product and its production and distribution are estimated. Then, on the basis of these preliminary results, the appropriate system boundaries are chosen and the need for further or more detailed environmental analysis is determined. For typical food and drink applications, the effect of different system boundaries on the outcome of environmental assessments and the advantage of the step-by-step analysis of the food supply system is shown. It appears that, depending on the consumer group, different advice for reduction of environmental effects has to be given. Furthermore, because of interrelated environmental effects of the food supply system, the continuing quest for more detailed and accurate analysis of the package components is not necessary for improved management of the environmental effects of packaging.Quantitative life cycle assessment (LCA) is a method allocating the environmental impacts of the whole life cycle of a product to the functioning of that product. The scientific basis of the method is still being elaborated. In this paper a proposal is made to improve the scientific basis of one specific step of the method: the aggregation of potentially toxic emissions of substances in one score for human toxicity and two scores for ecotoxicity. The aggregation is based on multimedia environmental models of Mackay simulating the behaviour of substances in the environment, and on toxicity data such as acceptable resp. tolerable daily intake (ADI resp. TDI) and no observed effect concentration (NOEC) per substance.
 It is proposed to apply models describing the environmental fate of toxic substances in LCAS Of products. In addition, it is proposed to adopt the concept of a reference substance, as used in the ozone depletion potential (ODP) and the global warming potential (GWP), to assess and aggregate emissions of potentially toxic substances.The development of the gastrointestinal nematode Heligmosomoides polygyrus was studied in the mouse. Levels of production of acetylcholinesterase and proteases were measured in excretory/secretory products of various stages of the parasite. The production of acetylcholinesterase was found to be maximal between days 4 and 6 post-infection, corresponding to the fourth larval stage of the parasite's life-cycle. Analysis of proteolytic activity revealed both quantitative and qualitative differences between the stages. Quantitative examination showed a maximal concentration of proteolytic enzymes in the early third larval stage (L3). Qualitative analysis revealed L3-associated molecules at 96, 15 and 8 kDa, L4-associated molecules at 58 and 33 kDa and adult-associated molecules at 116, 102, 39 and 25 kDa. A number appeared to be shared by all stages (18, 16 and 13 kDa), whilst others (76 and 42 kDa) appeared to be associated with the late L4/early adult parasite. The biological and immunological implications of variation in the production of proteases and acetylcholinesterase during the development of H. polygyrus are discussed.Technology and colour are viewed as interfaces between the environment, humans and human activity. Examples are provided of ways of facilitating and improving access to and use of colours by commercial users of colour coatings through improvements in the accuracy of measuring and displaying colour. By analogy, the task of providing effective interfaces within the coatings industry, between the coatings industry and the environment and between the coatings industry and the public and political domain are discussed. Examples of information shortfalls are cited to illustrate how distortions arise. Examples of more effective, integrated technological, organisational and political interfacing are culled from the author's experiences.The inheritance of an extrachromosomal 6-kb element has been examined in the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. A single base pair difference in the cytochrome b gene from the 6-kb element of two different cloned lines of the parasite was identified, and used as a marker in a cross in the mosquito stage of the life cycle. Analysis of 59 individual hybrid oocysts resulting from this cross clearly demonstrated that inheritance of the cytochrome b gene was uniparental. This observation makes it possible to investigate the inheritance and evolution of cytoplasmic traits, including certain forms of drug resistance, in natural populations of this parasite.
 The estimation of the costs and benefits of national climate change mitigation has acquired primary importance with the ratification of the Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC). The FCCC requires that each signatory prepare and complete inventories of greenhouse gases, and it calls for each party to formulate, implement, publish and regularly update national programs containing measures to mitigate climate change. In addition, it states that the developing countries may propose projects for financing with an estimate of the incremental costs and benefits of reducing emissions. Another article of the Convention notes that developing country parties may seek funds from developed countries for climate change mitigation activities. The Convention thus requires the estimation of incremental costs, and of the amount of fund transfers required for stabilizing emissions growth.Since use of natural gas emits less carbon dioxide (CO2) than other fossil fuels and CO2 is an important greenhouse gas, policies to encourage greater natural gas use are often touted as one strategy to reduce global warming. In this analysis, we examine the impacts of lower natural gas prices, brought about by government initiatives or market forces, on greenhouse gas emissions. The most surprising result of this analysis is that lower gas prices appear to have little impact on US greenhouse gas emission trends. However, lower gas prices and commensurate overall lower fossil energy costs do defer energy conservation efforts, stimulate more energy use economy-wide, and may displace cleaner renewable sources of energy. These results argue for a careful examination of attributes needed to align policy options intended to increase efficient gas use and those intended to lower overall greenhouse gas emissions. Life cycle assessment, a method for the assessment of the environmental impacts of products, is briefly explained. A mathematical method to perform the calculations and to identify dominant aspects in the environmental load of a product is developed. The results are used to derive expressions for a marginal analysis which can be used for improvement analysis. In this way, a designer or process engineer can determine which processes or materials to consider first when (re)designing a product. The method developed can also be used to estimate the reliability of the determination of the environmental load of the products analyzed in terms of the reliability of the data of the processes involved.Some problems of the international co-operation between the Parents Region countries are analysed from the perspective of one of the Russian participants-the Institute of Industrial Ecology Problems of the North, the Kola Science Centre of the Russian Academy of Sciences.Opportunities for pollution prevention can be identified from three distinct perspectives. Waste audits identify flow rates and compositions of materials that could be targets for pollution prevention. Life cycle analyses examine individual products, determining rates of waste generation, energy consumption and raw material usage. Studies in industrial ecology examine the uses and wastes associated with particular materials. This paper will review these three frameworks (waste audits, life cycle analyses, industrial ecology) for identifying pollution prevention opportunities. Each method has different streng
ths and weaknesses, but regardless of whether the focus is on wastes, products or materials, systematic evaluation of pollution prevention opportunities is a critical first step in minimizing environmental burdens. If life cycle assessment (LCA) is to become a widely respected and practised environmental management tool, common guidelines and a policy of openness need to be adopted, ECN conference delegates heard recently.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a method for making a comprehensive evaluation of all the material and energy resources needed for a product or service during its physical life, as well as the emissions involved. At KCL, a dedicated computer program has been developed for LCA purposes. One of its first applications concerns newsprint. The analysis is based on systematically collected data. Two cases of maximized maximized collection rate are studied, the first involving greater paper re-use and the second energy recovery from waste paper. These are compared with the reference condition in Europe (Germany) in 1990. The LCA inventory calculations show that, if the landfilling rate is to be reduced, it is ecologically preferable to use more waste paper for energy recovery rather than to maximize recycling. Besides carbon dioxide balance, several other emission parameters (though not all) support this conclusion.Renewable raw materials provide ecological advantages such as renewability, protection of limited resources, unlimited availability, ease of decomposition of end-products, as well as reintegration of material. In the public discussion the above-mentioned characteristics are increasingly examined from an ecological point of view. Do they require too much fertilizer and pesticides? Are there any impacts on the ecological system such as emissions to the groundwater and damages by erosion? Within certain limits - as the social-economic sector is not taken into account - the LCA-method proves to be a means of investigation whereby ecological processes can be evaluated in a comprehensive way from ''cradle to grave''. It is, however, stressed that LCA is not always carried out uniformly. Especially the LCA of renewable raw material shows considerable deviations resulting from the different evaluation of agricultural residue. The term ''waste'' in agricultural and industrial systems is discussed. By using the example of the Malaysian agricultural production of oil palms in plantations and palm oil in oil mills it is demonstrated that there exists an almost closed recycling system of all the agricultural residue and by-products. Furthermore, the paper deals with the closed CO2 loop in agricultural systems.Cleaner manufacturing is an increasing goal for industry in Europe for both existing and new facilities. The central issue is, how does one quantify cleaner? Toward that end, many university and industry groups in Europe are applying the principles of life cycle analysis (LCA). They also seek to develop new methods for use in the life cycle analysis process. These efforts fit in three categories 1) life cycle inventory or characterization, 2) the simplification algorithms to reduce the complexity of life cycle inventory to a single environmental factor, and 3) the policy or process utilization of these information. The review of activities in the field of determining what are cleaner manufacturing alternatives was conducted i
n five European countries and the European Union (EU) and for the period spanning 1992-1994. The purpose was to summarize and to establish mechanisms for U.S. engineers and scientists to begin collaboration with these research programs. Finally, some observations are made which compare the U.S. pollution prevention thrust with the European system for life cycle analysis and ecolabelling as a means to achieve environmental improvements.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) is a theoretically attractive approach for evaluating resource consumption and environmental mental emissions associated with the production, use, and disposal of products. Current LCA guidelines suggest adherence to conventions that can significantly affect results. Conventions of special importance in LCAs of forest products are those pertaining to sustainability of natural resources, recyclability and biodegradability of products, and use of renewable energy in manufacturing processes. More general methodological issues (e.g., relating emissions to impacts, site-to-site variability in loads, data quality) are also important in forest-product LCAs.The paper discusses the Environmental Management System (EMS) in termes of its implementation within a company, of product development and of the benefits resulting there from. This is followed by a discussion of Life-Cycle Assessment, both in terms of paints, their production, raw materials, packaging materials and solvent emissions. The paper concludes with a brief review of Eco-labelling systems.Life Cycle Assessments cannot solve our problems and cannot relieve us from decision making. LCA ist a tool to check possible changes in a system e.g. for their contribution to sustainable development. They can help to make decisions based on a better understanding of the pros and cons. Protection of sensible company know how in life cycle inventories was achieved through ISOPA, the European Isooyanate Producers Association. Advantages from use of polyurethanes are shown with examples (energy balances) taken from literature.This paper describes a technique to identify the effects on potential global warning of waste, of both energy and materials, in the areas of refrigeration and air-conditioning. Such equipment always uses energy and generally contains an chemical driving fluid. The calculation converts emissions of the driving fluids and the energy used to run the equipment into the equivalent Warning Impact (TEWI). Examples show that the switch from CFCs to HFCs should result in marked reductions in the potential for global warning from refrigeration and air-conditioning and that the TEWIs of hermetically sealed systems are influenced more by energy efficiency than the effect of total loss of the driving fluid. The technique may be applied with equal facility in areas other than refrigeration.An imlementation of life-cycle analysis (LCA) for energy systems is presented and applied to two renewable energy systems (wind turbines and building-integrated photovoltaic modules) and compared with coal plants.Popcorn as a packing material was examined as an alternative to polystyrene chips on the basis of energy requirements and load of pollutants to air, water and soil. The analysis included maize production, popcorn manufacture and disposal of the waste packing (by incineration) to generate heat. Popcorn production requires 2.0-3.3 times less e
nergy than polystyrene chips and causes 2.6-4.7 lower air pollutant emissions per kilogram of packing material. However, as popcorn is 4.6 times denser than polystyrene chips, emissions to the air per cubic metre of packing material range from 0% (if the material is composted after use) to 80% (if maize is imported from the USA) higher for popcorn than for polystyrene. Popcorn packing production causes more water pollution than polystyrene because of drainage of nitrates, phosphates and pesticides to the ground water. If, in the future, popcorn or other bio-products are to be used as environment friendly packing materials, their volumetric weight will have to be reduced by increasing the expansion factor, which will reduce the density and hence the transport and postage costs.The work presented here demonstrates the existence of statistically identifiable groups of consumers within the population with differentiable gasoline expenditure levels. The existence of these differences in gasoline expenditure levels is demonstrated through examination of urban consumers in the southern region of the USA and US rural consumers as a proxy for southern regional rural consumers. Current work in the analysis of energy end-use patterns indicates that changes in socioeconomic characteristics can lead to substantial changes in the demand for energy. The groups identified in this work have been linked to a developmental description of the formation and maturation of the family unit, known as a lifecycle. The majority of previous studies of consumer demand for gasoline have been performed with aggregate data on a state, regional or national basis. As a result household characteristics, such as age distribution within the household, which have been shown to play an important role in the determination of levels of other transport services, have not been included in previous analyses of the derived household demand for gasoline. Incorporating these factors into an analysis should be useful from a policy perspective, as well as from the perspective of improving forecast reliability.Life-cycle assessment is increasingly being recognized as an important tool for determining the environmental impacts. of products and packaging. A complete life-cycle assessment consists of three components: life-cycle inventory, impact assessment, and improvement assessment. The impact assessment methodology is still relatively undeveloped and controversial; however, the life-cycle inventory methodology is well established. Life-cycle inventory provides useful information on the quantities of energy and resources consumed and environmental releases associated with product and packaging systems. This article illustrates the types of useful information that are obtained from a life-cycle inventory and shows how the information can be analyzed and used to target areas for improving products in terms of reducing energy usage, resource usage, and environmental releases.A previous life cycle analysis (LCA) compared the reusable cloth diaper and disposable paper diaper with respect to energetics and environmental effects during manufacture, consumer use. and disposal. However, data are lacking on the first phase of the LCA - the chemical and natural resource inputs required to plant, maintain. and harvest cotton lands for the cloth diaper and softwood forests for the paper diaper In thi
s inventory study, data for cotton and southern softwood production in the United States were compiled in terms of the following inputs: irrigation water, fuel, fertilizers, biocides, soil amendments, and harvest aids. Inputs required for cotton fiber generally exceeded those for paper fiber Depending on the specific growing region, production of 1 kg of cotton fiber requires up to four orders of magnitude more irrigation water than 1 kg of diaper pulp. Chemical and natural resource inputs were expressed on the basis of 1,000 equivalent diaperings for commercially laundered cloth, home-laundered cloth, and paper diapers using assumptions for the fiber content of diapers, the life span of the cloth diaper, and a market share estimate for home- and commercially laundered cloth diapers. On this basis, cloth diapering consumes about four times more fertilizer, 27 times more biocide, and 450 times more irrigation water than the paper diaper system. Production of softwood pulpwood for the paper diaper consumed about three times more fuel than for cotton. Biocide requirements for 1 kg of cotton fiber were up to 500 times higher, with several applications required per year, compared to 2 to 3 applications required over a 24-year period for softwood. Fertilizer inputs for cotton were up to 150 times greater than for softwood. Lime and harvest aids were generally not used on softwood forests, but were required in amounts of 84 and 2 g, respectively, for the production of 1 kg of cotton. The dataset suggests an environmental trade-off exists among the diapering systems; no one diapering system is superior in terms of required chemical and natural resource inputs.Currently, reducing VOC emissions is a major activity for surface coaters. This paper examines the often ill-understood driving forces behind this activity and asks how far the trend should continue; diminishing returns in VOC emissions eventually becoming offset by environmental or other compromises whichever route of control is chosen. The difference between VOC's smog forming potentials is discussed and the potential environmental benefits of simple based solvent-solvent reformulation are shown. Combining this with end-of-pipe emission controls is shown to give a predictable, highly effective and (for medium to large coating users) economically attractive way forward.The malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum can only synthesize pyrimidine nucleotides via the de novo pathway which is therefore a suitable target for development of antimalarial drugs. New assay procedures have been developed using high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) which enable concurrent measurement of pyrimidine intermediates in malaria. Synchronized parasites growing in erythrocytes were pulse-labeled with [C-14] bicarbonate at 6-h intervals around the 48-h asexual life cycle. Analysis of malarial extracts by HPLC showed that incorporation of [C-14]bicarbonate into pyrimidine nucleotides was maximal during the transition from trophozoites to schizonts. The reaction, N-carbamyl-L-aspartate --> L-dihydroorotate (CA-asp --> DHO) catalyzed by malarial dihydroorotase is inhibited by L-6-thiodihydroorotate (TDHO) in vitro (K-i = 6.5 mu M), and TDHO, as the free acid or methyl ester, induces a major accumulation of CA-asp in malaria. Atovaquone, a naphthoquinone, is a moderate inhibitor of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase 
in vitro (K-i = 27 mu M) but induces major accumulations of CA-asp and DHO. Pyrazofurin induces accumulation of orotate and orotidine in malaria, consistent with inhibition of orotidine 5'-monophosphate (OMP) decarboxylase with subsequent dephosphorylation of the OMP accumulated. Although TDHO, atovaquone, and pyrazofurin arrest the growth of P. falciparum, only moderate decreases in UTP, CTP, and dTTP were observed. 5-Fluoroorotate also arrests the growth of P. falciparum with major accumulations of 5-fluorouridine mono-, di-, and triphosphates and the most significant inhibition of de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides.Life cycle assessment, a method for the assessment of the environmental impacts of products, is briefly explained. A mathematical method to perform the calculations and to identify dominant aspects in the environmental load of a product is developed. The results are used to derive expressions for a marginal analysis which can be used for improvement analysis. In this way, a designer or process engineer can determine which processes or materials to consider first when (re)designing a product. The method developed can also be used to estimate the reliability of the determination of the environmental load of the products analyzed in terms of the reliability of the data of the processes involved.Producing constructed facilities of the highest quality in a cost-effective environment will benefit not only owners and end users, but also all participants engaged in the conception, design, construction, operation, maintenance, rehabilitation, or decommission phase of its life cycle. Cost-effective and top-quality facilities can be conceived, designed, built, and operated if these activities are not performed in a vacuum, but rather, performed in a life-cycle context. Concurrent engineering is a philosophy, which is conductive to true life-cycle analysis. It brings together, from project inception, multiple individuals to address all angles of a project and enables the accumulation of knowledge and information so as to reduce downstream risks and anticipate constructability, operability, and maintainability expectations. Aspects of concurrent engineering are already practiced in the architecture/engineering-construction (A/E/C) industry in the form of Total Quality Management (TQM), constructability reviews, and partnering. Other aspects like multifunctional team formation, macrolevel reorganization, and computer-based cooperative and distributed design still have not been adopted. This paper suggests that the A/E/C industry should continue adopting more facets of the concurrent engineering paradigm. Concurrent engineering can turn the industry's high degree of fragmentation and specialization into a strength, as opposed to a current debility.In the late 1980s the demands for a more ecological life style and sustainability set off intense research for methods to analyse and assess the environmental impact of products and systems. The methodology crystallizing from this research is called life cycle assessment (LCA). This paper presents the concept, methodology, applications and present status of LCA. LCA as applied to food production systems is discussed in terms of needs, special demands on methodology, the studies that have been performed and ongoing activities.A comprehensive nonlinear programming model, MIMES, for the 
optimization of linked material and energy flow systems is presented. The model is generic, intended for systems that can be described by materials and energy balances but where the details of phase transitions and chemical reactions can be omitted. It fills a niche between energy systems engineering and process flowsheeting models. Issues suitable for analysis by the model range from energy conservation in industrial plants, specific industries or industrial subsectors to municipal waste management and fuels a id materials life cycle analysis. MIMES is implemented on PC (386/486). The mod is demonstrated tor a paper production line in a paper mill. This example shows how the model can be used for joint analysis of energy and water conservation, substitution of energy carriers, and utilization of waste heat outside the system.Life-cycle analysis (LCA) has been described by its proponents as an environmental panacea, capable of providing engineers, designers, and managers with everything that they need to make environmentally correct decisions. Unfortunately, the goals of the technique and the reality of its application are very different. Like any analytical technique, its application requires the imposition of assumptions to accommodate limitations in budgets, resources, and know-how. Furthermore, the evaluation of the analytical results introduces questions of strategy and priority that are currently unresolved. Thus, while the concepts underlying LCA are readily understandable, the practical application of the method has substantial problems.The life-cycle analysis (LCA) of products is essentially the LCA of materials: both are concurrently and interdependently analyzed and assessed according to their environment effects. This approach provides a framework to measure the extrinsic environmental properties of materials. In the following, three properties-gross energy requirement, global-warming potential, and solid-waste burden-are broadly discussed for steel, aluminum, and polyethylene. The environmental profiles are then applied to assess the use of alternative materials in terms of the LCA of an automotive component. Given the possibility of a substantial variation in results, one must be careful with the scoping and assessment of LCA. Despite the limitations, it provides a useful map for improving environmental compatibility and performance.Inventory calculations are used to compare different scenarios for the entire life cycle of newsprint in Central-European market area. From the analyses it is concluded that to make a major impact on the landfill problem in Germany, area chosen as a reference, burning waste paper for electricity generation is ecologically preferable to deinking and re-use. Based on the calculations, a provisional but ecologically sound model is outlined which would greatly ease the load on landfill sites and involve low consumption of non-renewable fuels and low emissions. In this model, the load on landfill sites would be reduced by maximizing paper collection (80%) and total emissions also reduced by using primary fibre, i.e. pressure groundwood and TCF chemical pulp only. All the paper produced in this way would be burned in a back-pressure boiler plant, and the electricity and heat generated would be used internally within the system. ff a use could be found for all of the ''surplus '' heat, a situation would
 be reached in which all emissions would be lower than is the case at present.This paper presents an evaluation of the status and direction of toxic/hazardous waste reduction in the chemical and petrochemical industries from an international perspective. Pertinent approaches, experiences and trends are described. Industrial waste management has evolved from an ''end-of-pipe'' treatment mentality to source reduction as the preferred option. It is generally agreed that the Chemical/Petrochemical Industries generate more hazardous and toxic waste than any other industrial sector. Also because of the large quantities of materials and energy used by these industries, significant opportunities are available for waste reduction. In almost all cases costs savings have resulted, many of which are significant. The importance of pollution prevention by ''clean technologies'' instead of remediation, multi-media considerations and the significance of product life-cycle assessment in pollution prevention programs is stressed. Examples are provided which demonstrate, that a proactive approach by DOW, E.I. DuPONT, AMOCO, 3M Corp., CIBA-GEIGY and others is now becoming the norm. From an international policy perspective, important commonalities and differences in strategy and efforts for toxics/hazardous waste management exist. Much can be learned by the mistakes and solutions between cultures and countries. Much progress has been made in protection of public health and the environment - but much remains to be done. This paper is intended to provide a stimulus for discussion aimed at optimizing future waste minimization activities in the chemical and petrochemical industries.Waste minimization/pollution prevention has become the strategic approach to waste management in the 90s and the hope for environmental management as we enter the third millenium. Nearly a decade ago, EPA's Office of Research and Development began a focused Waste Minimization Research Program to identify and demonstrate technology for reducing the generation of wastes and shifted the Agency's priority from end-of-pipe controls to the prevention of waste generation. The purpose of this presentation is to share a number of the results from several years of researching engineering solutions to multi-media problems, building a sound scientific foundation to support pollution prevention (P2) principles, and developing and demonstrating pollution prevention technologies, tools, and techniques. The ''tools of the trade'' for pollution prevention are the research reports that provide results of technology development, the case studies and demonstrations of P2 technologies, and the technical guides and manuals for conducting P2 activities. Technology Development - Tools resulting from technology development include the numerous research reports and briefs from: 1) the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Program, 2) pollution Prevention Measurement Projects, and 3) the Innovative Clean Technologies Program. Technology Demonstration - Tools resulting from technology demonstration include the research reports and summaries from: 1) the Waste Reduction Innovative Technology Evaluation (WRITE) Program, 2) the Waste Reduction Evaluation At Federal Sites (WREAFS) program, 3) the New Jersey/EPA Waste Minimization Assessment Project, and 4) Small Generator Waste Minimization Assessment Program. Technical Guides
 and Manuals - These tools include: 1)Facility Pollution Prevention Guide, 2) 16 industry specific guides to pollution prevention, 3) Background Document on Clean Products Research and Implementation, and 4) industrial Pollution Prevention Opportunities for the 1990s. Much of the EPA's Pollution Prevention RD&D Program has focused on the development and demonstration of practical tools to encourage the development and adoption of processing technologies and products that will lead to reducing the aggregate generation rates for pollutatants entering various environmental media. The strategic direction for pollution prevention RD&D through the 1990s is: 1) to study high risk environmental problems where P2 offers a cost-effective solution for reducing the risks, 2) to conduct cross-cutting research such as measurement, modelling, and LCA that can be applied to multiple problems, and 3) to establish joint global P2 RD&D ventures where products and processes know no waste generating boundaries.For some years government organizations. industry, and consumer and environmental organizations have been working on methods with which, like industrial management balances, the environmental burden resulting from the manufacture of products are measured and assessed with the object of making products ecologically comparable. Balance models and terms with widely differing factual content have been used such as ''ecobalance'', ''product line analysis'' (PLA) or in the American language sphere ''Product-Life-Cycle-Assessment''(LCA). The PLA is supposed to combine and assess all the factors affecting the environment during the life of a product. The evaluation is intended to extent beyond the environmental sphere and also incorporate economic, social and communal criteria. However no scheme has as yet been agreed for this. Both in the LCA and in the ecobalance the life of the product is described from raw material extraction to final disposal within an exactly defined balance framework. On the input side are the consumption of energy, raw materials, water and air as well as the demands on land The output side contains the airborne emissions. the noise immission. the waste material, waste water and waste heat, as well as useful raw materials produced The evaluation is to be confined to environmental demands, however it is only in some respects that it is simpler than that of the complex PLA, as at present there is still no generally accepted ''ecological'' calculation unit. In the ecobalance for concrete various environmental units are standardized on the basis of the procedure used by the Federal Swiss Office for Environment, Forests and Agriculture, and dimensionless proportional numbers are compiled on the basis of actual and maximum possible loadings (limit values). The ecological loading caused by the product is weighed against its benefit to the environment in the form of a utility analysis. This decision technique familiar mainly from planning processes makes it possible to include several points of view at once arriving at a decision. Differing quantitative, and also qualitative, data can be taken into account in the form of weighted dimensionless utility values. The paper presents the first results of a European overview of urban innovations, undertaken by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. Projects have b
een chosen which improve urban metabolism; have a collective aim; resist time; favor local democracy and participation at the conception, decision and execution phase; and produce models that are transferable to different places. Projects concerned with urban environmental auditing or social justice in cities are extremely important as they can lead to new planning to achieve the European sustainable city.
 Forests play an important role in sequestering and storing carbon in terrestrial ecosystems, so countries considering ways to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions are looking at forestry projects as one option. Designing forestry projects that accomplish desired goals is no simple task however, as many past failures es attest. This paper proposes that, to be successful, climate change mitigation forestry projects need to. (a) feature other socially, economically and environmentally desireable goals as primary motivators; (b) be designed in cooperation with, and in the interests of, local populations; and (c), feature cooperative efforts between government, industry, and volunteer associations. Volunteer associations can often be assisted in being a more capable partner through an organizational training and support process, and this is one of the services offered to cooperating countries through American Forests.The global warming debate has neglected and thus underestimated the importance of technical change in considering reduction in greenhouse gases and adaptation to climate change, Relevant quantitative cases of long-run technical change during the past 100 years are presented in computing, communications, transport, energy, and agriculture, A noteworthy technological trajectory is that of decarbonization, or decreasing carbon intensity of primary energy, If human societies have not yet reached the end of the history of technology, the cost structure for mitigation and adaptation changes could be cheap. AT&T recognizes that industrial ecology and design for environment (DFE) are crucial competencies that are vital now, and they will become keys to corporate success in the next century. The importance of these competencies is based on the following three fundamental considerations: the need to control environmental compliance costs; the need to meet customer requirements and demands; and the need to enlarge market access and generate continuous competitive advantage. Over the long term, environmental competence and offerings-especially in services that reduce material and energy consumption-will become increasingly important, and they will ensure that AT&T continues in a leadership position into the next century. Thus, all AT&T stakeholders-including customers, employees, shareowners, and the communities within which AT&T has a presence-attach crucial importance to both industrial ecology and DFE. In short, environmental concerns that once were considered overhead now have assumed strategic importance.Trade policies and environmental policies have evolved largely independently, and until recently their interactions attracted little attention. There is much discussion of the institutional arrangements and economic instruments needed to embody environmental concerns in trade policy, but relatively little discussion of the role of technology. This paper describes the long-term, environmentally-motivated technological change involved in shifting from an ''end-of-pipe'' approach for capturing pollutants after they are generated to a focus on the prevention of environmental degradation. The new engineering field of Industrial Ecology promotes design and manufacturing practices that are based on an examination of the full life-cycle of a product in order to improve environmental performance. Industrial Ecology is spreading quickly in the indus
trialized countries, but its repercussions are transmitted widely through international trade. Plastics provide a good example of both the opportunities and the difficulties surrounding environmental protection, technological change, and trade. Concerns over solid waste in the rich countries may result in new market opportunities for biomass-based polymers, but the success of these products depends upon a complex set of factors, including very different alternative ways individual countries may choose to deal with solid waste. The implications for the developing countries are examined for the case of plastics, and more generally.The main thrust of this paper is to define the concept of industrial ecology and to discuss how its principles may be utilized to reconsider the materials cycle. Simply put, ecological principles imply that we minimize waste during manufacture and ensure that the products are recycled at the end of their useful life. Such a rethought materials cycle has to stress waste minimization and, at the same time, track energy flows and cost considerations simultaneously with the movement of the materials streams. In this paper, special attention is paid to recycling issues in metals production, municipal waste, and also to recycling issues pertaining to electronic materials. Comments are made on the driving forces and the barriers to industrial ecology, including economics, regulation, management and education, and on the international aspects of industrial ecology.We present an assembly of metrics for monitoring environmental performance at the national level, based on the flow of materials through the US economy, To set the stage, we show a schematic rendering of national materials flows, identifying the most important flow components. We compare and contrast amounts of materials entering and exiting the economy, using weight as the common measure, Additionally, we relate physical data on materials consumption and disposal to monetary measures of national economic activity, Eight general classes and eighteen individual metrics comprise the set, For several, we provide quantitative examples, Our aim is to initiate a framework for assessing national materials use which helps prevent pollution, reduce waste and encourage efficient resource use.Since the collapse of an asset-inflated economic bubble in Japan started in the second half of the 1980s, it has brought about an entirely different assessment of this country. For all admiration claimed for it, the Japanese economy proved to be subject to Newton's law of gravitation. Opinions were beginning to divide over Japanese technology, too, after it was once believed to be leading the world. In fact, Japan has a big task to solve in the years before the 21st century. How will the Japanese face up to upheavals in the world, or how will they respond to their domestic problems such as demographic and rigid structures? Few messages from Japan have so far been available with regard to these questions. The world is left in a puzzle over the questions. Our task in this issue is to make clear what the Japanese are thinking and preparing to do in the years before the 21st century, and ''what it is that they have to produce an influence on the world.'' Specifically, discussions center on moves toward a knowledge-based society, research and development projects, manufacturing technologie
s, business strategies, industrial ecology, and the possibilities of a trilemma. In this article, I make some observations as a background to those subjects.The functioning of modern societies requires large flows of materials to satisfy human wants both directly and indirectly; for example, 50 kg per day per American. The nature of these flows determines their impact on the natural environment. We develop and test a comprehensive framework to order materials flows in the US economy, We assess and quantify inputs to the national economy, outputs, foreign trade, and wastes from resource extraction, using mass measures of these flow components. The bulk of materials inputs satisfies demand for energy, construction, and food. Atmospheric emissions and materials embedded in long-lived structures dominate outputs, with smaller contributions from solid wastes and dissipated materials. Trade, accounting for approximately 10% of US materials flows, is dominated by bulk commodities such as fuel, food, and chemicals. Extractive wastes from fuel and nonfuel minerals account for more than double the amount of inputs and mostly remain at the site of generation, Metrics based on a consistent, periodic accounting of physical materials flows can provide a powerful means to assess environmental performance at the national level. Improvements in the collection and organization of the data supporting national material accounts will further their utility. Environmental Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) has emerged over the past years as a method to assess environmental impacts of products and processes. In this case study we use LCA to obtain an environmental measure for refined oils, which are inputs for fat blends. As a start, an inventory is drawn up of the environmental effects of the oils. Then we use the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) to aggregate the scores of these effects to one environmental index for each oil. This multiple criteria decision tool involves making pairwise comparisons between the environmental effects, resulting in relative weight factors. Multiplying the effect scores with the relative weights yields an environmental index. It is now possible to improve the environmental impact of a fat blend composition using the environmental index in a linear programming (LP) blending model. With this combination of methods, environmental aspects of products can become part of product portfolio management.This paper describes a computer-aided analysis of the drilling mud process for offshore drilling in Brazil by Petrobra's. The analysis, which employs a numerical model and software for drilling mud lifecycle analysis (LCA), was originally developed for Conoco, Inc., as part of a fellowship investigation of environmental control technology for drilling fluids. Since then, the model has been improved and rested using field drilling data. The model quantifies the life cycle of drilling fluid used for a well. The life cycle is related to the well's drilling program and involves the sequence of operations from the fresh mud mixing, to usage, processing, storage, and final disposal of waste mud. In the model, the time-related prediction of drilling depth has been combined with calculations regarding the condition of the mud system, such as solids control, updated volumes of spent mud discharge and storage, and cumulative costs of mud mixing and disposal. T
he paper shows how a qualitative expert knowledge of drilling technology has been quantified in order to input data to the computer program. The analysis, presented herein, included two steps. First, drilling data from other well in the area was used to calibrate the model with regard to drilling rate and the rime of non-drilling operations. Then, the simulation runs examined several options of drilling mud process for offshore wells including the closed-loop and zero-discharge operations. The model proved to be a valuable tool to evaluate mud process modification and predict environmental compliance cost.Too scientific, too complicated, too expensive... life cycle assessment is now being reassessed, Setac, whose guidelines aim to provide an industry standard, is looking to improve its code of practice and to limit LCA's goals.This paper describes how a Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach can be a beneficial support tool in assessing pollution prevention (P2) opportunities. LCA evaluates potential upstream and downstream impacts that may result from the implementation of a P2 activity, including impacts during resource extraction, manufacturing, product use and maintenance, and final disposal. Two such LCA-based approaches, developed by EPA's Pollution Prevention Research Branch, are presented. The first approach is a preliminary P2 Factors methodology that was developed using the lithographic printing industry as the test industry. Two P2 activities were selected for study: solvent substitution in blanket and press wash and waterless versus conventional dampening fountain system printing. The second approach accesses P2 progress when incorporating product re-design, reformulation or replacement. The P2 Progress method compares the pollution generated by the manufacturing, use and disposal of the original product with the modified product. A fictionalized reformulation of rubber cement demonstrates the P2 Progress method.This paper addresses an increasingly important aspect of product design and its relationship to life-cycle costing: disassembly for material recovery opportunities (MRO). MRO is defined as an opportunity to reclaim post-consumer products for recycling, remanufacturing and re-use. The authors have developed a methodology which can be used to identify and assess cost-effective characteristics of disassembly for the recovery of products. The central focus of this paper is aimed at improving the efficiency of the disassembly planning process and generating an optimal disassembly sequence. Four criteria are established to optimize the generation of the disassembly sequence: (1) material compatibility, (2) clustering for disposal, (3) concurrent disassembly operations, and (4) maximizing yield. In this paper we define the 'disassemblability' of a product as the ability to optimize the design and disassembly process for removal of specific parts or materials in a manner which will minimize costs. Steps have been taken to incorporate this methodology within a life-cycle analysis software tool (EDIT) to be used at the early concept stage of product design.The project group ''Life Cycle Assessment'' of the IKW (German Detergent Industry Association) compiled the Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) for the detergent manufacturing in Germany. The LCI follows the principles recommended by SETAC and the ISO Commitee Draft on ''Life Cycle Asses
sment''. The study covers regular powder, compact powder and liquid detergents. The companies participating in this LCI data acquisition represent more than 90% of the German detergent market. The LCI includes the phases of detergent manufacturing: storage, spray tower (for powders only), mixing and packaging. For these phases the environmental data energy demand airborne/waterborne emissions and solid waste are being evaluated. All data in this study are expressed as required amount of detergents per 1,000 kg dry laundry. The study covers only one segment of the detergent's life-cycle: the detergent manufacturing processes. It must be emphasized, however, that the study does not allow any comparative evaluation on the overall environmental effects of regular powder, compact powder and liquid detergents. Additionally, regular powder, compact powder and liquid detergents differ in their formulation characteristics, cleaning properties and performance, although all considered detergents are heavy duty detergents. For liquid detergents, the LCI data show a lower energy demand and consequently also lower air emissions and solid waste in comparison to powder detergents; air emissions and solid waste are mostly fuel related. Reason is that the manufacturing of liquid detergents does not require the spray tower technology. It needs to be recognized that the new generation of compact powders which is already introduced to the German market does not require spray tower technology anymore. Therefore, energy demand air emissions and solid waste will be reduced significantly. No conclusions on the waterborne emissions from liquid detergent manufacturing is feasible due to process technology constraints. Packagings for liquid detergents require more plastics while powder dergents use more paper/cardboard for their packagings.This study performed a life cycle analysis on eight different types of nestable pallets. The pallets were made from wood and plastic. The performance of the pallets was compared based on number of trips without damage, cost, weight, and environmental considerations. A pallet performance coefficient was developed to compare the different pallet types. The results showed that the twin sheet thermo-formed HDPE plastic pallets showed the best performance followed by the structural foam HDPE pallets. The presswood pallets showed the poorest performance.Paint application is a sector of human activity, where the common use according to product determination by the end user or small craftmans business contributes most obviously to environment pollution, in first instance of course by solvent evaporation. There is a steadily increasing pressure by governmental authorities on the paint industry to reduce solvent emission from its products. At the same time, more integral approaches of environmental impact assessments - so called life cycle analysis - become more and more important. The paint industry answers these challenges by development of new types of coatings, which mainly means new types of binder polymers and new types of crosslink chemistry. Advances in the understanding of polymer physical chemistry, as well as the advent of new synthesis concepts lead to a number of emerging technologies expected to contribute significantly to reduction of pollution by paint application. While in industrial paint application end-of-the-pipe techno
logy is still economically favourably competing with the advanced paint chemistry concepts (e.g. high-solids, waterborne, UV-curing, electrocoating, powder coating and supercritical CO2-application), the situation in the large sector of end-user and craftsman application of paint is much more difficult, at least in the sector of high performance and particularly high gloss coatings. End-of-pipe-technology is unapplicable and, on the other hand, degrees of freedom in application equipment and curing conditions are limited. Furthermore, labour safety requirement further restrict the scope of applicable new chemistry.The example of a recuperative heat exchanger is used to demonstrate the temperature monitoring and the thermal fatigue assessment of a component in the primary circuit of a PWR. After describing the geometry and the operating conditions, the placement of the thermocouples at locations of interest is shown. The temperature recordings show that the existing operational instrumentation was very slow and the fluid transients were actually much faster than anticipated. With a computer program allowing the reduction from outside wall to fluid temperatures, the thermal inertia of the old instrumentation could be quantified. Consequently, old recordings from slow instrumentation could still be used. Thermal finite element computations are presented that yield quite favourable correlations between computations and measurements.A steadily increasing demand for recycling of polymers has resulted in a demand for methods making it possible to compare different: disposal processes' influence on the environment and on the resources. 'Ecoprofiles' can be used for ranking of different disposal processes in an environmentally and resource compatible way. An ecoprofile is an assessment of the environmental and resource impacts for a given disposal process, and those processes influenced by the disposal process. Within the constraints and boundaries imposed by the model, assumptions made, and data utilized, this article describes ecoprofiles for six different ways of disposing the plastic fraction in municipal solid waste. The following disposal processes are studied: (1 and 2) two different material recycling processes that include separation of the plastic waste; (3) material recycling without separation of the plastic waste; (4) pyrolysis; (5) incineration with heat recovery; and (6) landfill.Total balance and evaluation of production processes taking the evaluation of metallic surface cleaning systems as an example Abstract In evaluating production processes for plant optimisation as well as for installation comparisons, nowadays the aspects of the complete requirements are only partially taken into account. Whereas techno-economical optimisation of production processes is currently applied by engineering processes, only few concepts exist for the quantification of ecological impacts. The main focus of this paper is to consider the ecological dimension through a process oriented ecological balance methodology. This methodology is based on the concept of life cycle analysis (LCA) of products and is applied in the field of metallic surface cleaning processes.Currently, more and more companies are becoming interested in designing their products to cause the least harm to the environment. This is called Design For the Environment (DFE) and one majo
r tool in the environmental assessment of a design is Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). Life Cycle Analysis involves considering the environmental impact of every stage in the product's life, ending with retirement. This paper discusses a framework for a Design For the Environment software system and discusses one tool which has been developed.In reaction to a paper in Environmental Management in which the sense and sensibility of environmental assessments of packaging were questioned, it is argued that these types of assessments may be very useful, provided the relevant types of questions are posed. These boundary conditions are discussed, along with an overview of more recent methodological developments with respect to environmental assessment of products.Life-cycle assessment models attempt to quantify the environmental implications of alternative products and processes, tracing pollution discharges and resources use through the chain of producers and consumers. Present life-cycle assessments must draw boundaries that limit consideration to a few producers in the chain from raw materials to a finished product. We show that this limitation considers only a fraction of the environmental discharges associated with a product or process, thereby making current assessments unreliable. We propose an approach that uses economic input-output analysis and pollution discharge data and apply the model to automobiles, refrigerators, and computer purchases, and to a comparison of paper and plastic cups.Many management processes and tools can provide companies with information to support their environmental decision making. Risk assessment, environmental auditing, life cycle assessment and environmental reporting are but a few examples. Each of these has typically evolved independently as the need for it has arisen. Today, however, this abundance of tools can lead to confusion: What is the exact objective of each tool? How do they differ? Are some 'better' than others? Should they be used in parallel, sequentially or in place of each other? More importantly, how do they fit together into a coherent environmental management framework that will ensure sound environmental and economic decision making in a company? This paper seeks to answer these questions. It describes the overall environmental framework that has been developed internally within Procter & Gamble and which allows the company to make coherent economically and environmentally sound decisions, in both the short- and long-term.Life cycle inventory (LCI) quantifies the energy requirements and emissions associated with specific packages and/or products. The unique feature of the analysis is its focus on the entire life of a product, from raw material extraction to consumer use to final disposition, rather than on a single manufacturing step or environmental emission. The principals of Franklin Associates, Ltd. have been performing LCIs, also known as Resource and Environmental Profile Analyses (REPAs), for the past 20 years. Procter & Gamble (P&G) scientists have been using LCI to analyze their feedstocks, processes, packaging, and products since the late 1980s. Current worldwide environmental concerns have made LCI a useful tool for prioritizing efforts, goal setting, and measuring environmental quality improvement. Three P&G case studies conducted by Franklin Associates will be discussed to illust
rate the usefulness of LCI in identifying environmental quality improvement opportunities.Life cycle analysis (LCA) is an increasingly important tool for environmental policy, and even for industry. Analysts are also interested in forecasting future materials/energy fluxes on regional and global scales, as a function of various economic growth and regulatory scenarios. A fundamental tenet of LCA is that every material product must eventually become a waste. To choose the 'greener' of two products or policies it is necessary to take into account its environmental impacts from 'cradle to grave'. This includes not only indirect inputs to the production process, and associated wastes and emissions, but also the future (downstream) fate of a product. The first stage in the analysis is quantitative comparisons of materials flows and transformations. Energy fluxes are important insofar as they involve materials (e.g., fuels, combustion products). This can be an extremely valuable exercise, if done carefully. However, the data required to accomplish this first step are not normally available from published sources. Theoretical process descriptions from open sources may not correspond to actual practice. Moreover, so-called 'confidential' data are unverifiable (by definition) and may well be erroneous. In the absence of a formal materials balance accounting system, such errors may not be detected. A key thesis of this paper is that process data can, in many cases, be synthesized, using models based on the laws of thermodynamics and chemistry. While synthetic but possible data may not fully reflect the actual situation, it is far superior to 'impossible' data. Most of the recent literature on LCA focusses on the second stage of the analysis, namely the selection and evaluation of different, non-comparable environmental impacts ('chalk vs. cheese'). This problem is, indeed, very difficult -and may well be impossible to solve convincingly -even at the conceptual level. However, the only approach that can make progress is one that utilizes monetization to the limits of its applicability, rather than one that seeks to by-pass (or 're-invent') economics. Nevertheless, the evaluation problem is second in priority, for the simple reason that LCA has utility even if the evaluation technique is imperfect. On the other hand, LCA has no (or even negative) utility if the underlying physical data is wrong with respect to critical pollutants.A life cycle assessment (LCA) has been carried out to compare production and use of three different fuel products: regular gasoline, gasoline with MTBE and diesel. The study quantifies energy consumption and emissions through the production chain and assesses the potential impacts to the environment. Some of the methodological problems performing the LCA are discussed. The study indicates that production of gasoline with MTBE has potentially larger environmental impacts than production of regular gasoline, caused by the extra facilities for production of MTBE. The study also shows that the results are highly sensitive to the actual product specifications and assumptions that are made. Different product specifications can therefore lead to other conclusions. The results also indicate that production of diesel leads to significantly lower potential impacts than the gasolines.The paper presents a comprehensive life cycle model 
and analysis of the WSI Associative String Processor (WASP). The model simulates the manufacture, acceptance, and operational life of a hypothetical WASP device using discrete event simulation techniques, Manufacturing defects are modeled with the negative binomial distribution, and operational faults are modeled using an adaptation of the MIL-HDBK-217F VHSIC reliability model, A full description is given of the simulation procedures and fault tolerant structure representations used in the model, A hypothetical WASP device manufactured in poor conditions and subjected to harsh operational conditions is shown to support nearly 8000 associative processing elements (APE) after 100000 h (11.4 yr) of continuous simulated operation, A simple post-manufacture device selection procedure is demonstrated which improves this harvest figure to over 10000 APE's. A hypothetical WASP device manufactured in good conditions and subjected to mild operational conditions is shown to support an average of over 12500 APE's after 100000 h of continuous simulated operation, without device selection, An architectural parameter sensitivity analysis for the hypothetical device shows that the areas of circuit elements at the upper levels of the fault tolerance hierarchy have greater significance than those at the leaf level for both yield and reliability, A test coverage analysis demonstrates the need for a comprehensive testing strategy for WSI devices.Ninety-eight per cent of Norwegian low-rise housing construction is in timber frame, a technique which has reached a high level of perfection with regards to thermal efficiency, air tightness and speed of erection. This paper makes a comprehensive life cycle analysis of both timber-frame and log construction.Some aspects of a number of different techniques for environmental decision support, in particular risk assessment (RA) and life-cycle assessment (LCA), are briefly discussed. The importance of a co-herent framework, the use of common data sets, and harmonization of methods is emphasized. The latter leads to a discussion of a fundamental difference between techniques that assess continuous emission fluxes, like RA, and techniques that assess discrete emission pulses, like LCA. The question whether it is possible to apply the same types of impact assessment models is positively answered for most models. The implications are threefold: It is allowed to employ the much easier steady-state models in pulse-oriented techniques, there exist often postulated but not yet rigidly proven equivalency factors for use in e. g. life-cycle assessment, and it is possible to harmonize the models as used in pulse-oriented and in flux-oriented models.Life cycle assessments to protect global environment and to control waste in the polymer industry are reviewed. It focused on 1) the environmentally sound technology, 2) the energy conservation, and 3) recycling of industrial products. The competitiveness of a nation depends on how to balance between economic development of sustainable growth and responsible care of global environment in borderless economy. It fully depends on the development of both the environmentally sound manufacturing and the effective products recycling technologies. Current environmental issues of the Japanese chemical industries as well as Toray's performance and new products development for environment business
 are reviewed; 1) Energy conservation and technology of Japanese manufacturing industry. 2) Development of environmentally sound technology. 3) Effective products recycling technologies, and 4) Sustainable growth of the new chemical age. The future issues of life cycle assessment and environmental protection in manufacturing industries are discussed.We develop an applied general equilibrium model to examine the optimal social security replacement rate and the welfare benefits associated with it. Our setup consists of overlapping generations of 65-period lived individuals facing mortality risk and individual income risk. Private credit markets, including markets for private annuities, are closed by assumption. Unlike previous analyses, we find that an unfunded social security system may well enhance economic welfare. In our benchmark economy, the optimal social security replacement rate is 30%, and an empirically more plausible replacement rate of 60% raises welfare compared with an economy with no social security system.Life cycle energy balance and carbon dioxide emission have been evaluated for LNG combined cycle and integrated coal gasification combined cycle (IGCC) power generation system with carbon dioxide capture and sequestering technologies. The study gave a prediction that CO2 recovery and sequestration would lower the net energy ratio by 16% to 61%. CO2 emission control potential was estimated to be in the range of 61% to 76%.The environmental impact of small-scale sewage-treatment works has been evaluated using the technique of 'life-cycle analysis'. Three sewage-treatment works with different process options were analysed to identify and quantify material use, energy use and environmental releases during construction operation and demolition. This enabled (i) a comparison to be made between process options, and (ii) the identification of opportunities for the improvement of environmental performance. Subject to satisfactory sewage treatment and sludge disposal, the technique identified additional impacts of importance, which have implications for energy management, works design, supplier management and general environmental policy. Life-cycle analysis provides a useful insight into environmental impact and has potential for wider application within the water industry.The inventory of a life Cycle Assessment of Copper production from primary and secondary sources, of Copper and Copper alloy fabrication to semifinished and selected final products is presented. It consits of 3 parts. Ordered by 'Deutsches Kupfer-Institut' and in cooperation with the Wirtschaftsvereinigung Metalle e. V. as well as with various industrial companies.The goal in selecting environmentally-sound building products is to maximize use to recycled materials, and to ensure that, mining, harvesting and extracting raw materials does not pose a threat to existing resources of endangered species. The amount of energy that goes into the material at every stage of its life-cycle should be minimized, as should the amount of waste generated.Environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA) of products has been the focus of growing attention in the last few years. The methodological framework has been developed rapidly, and a provisional ''Code of Practice'' has been drawn up by an international group of experts. One of the elements of LCA is impact assessment, which inclu
des a characterization step in which the contributions of resource extraction and polluting emissions to impact categories such as resource depletion, global warming, and acidification are quantified and aggregated as far as possible. This can be achieved by multiplying extractions and emissions by a so-called equivalency factor and aggregating the results in one or more effect score(s) per impact category. In this report a proposal is developed for equivalency factors indicating the relative depletion of a resource per unit extracted. It is proposed to measure depletion by physical data on reserves and production and regeneration rates, and to distinguish between abiotic and biotic resources. Equations are developed to calculate equivalency factors for these two categories of resources, resulting in so-called abiotic depletion potentials (ADP) and biotic depletion potentials (BDP). The application of these ADPs and BDPs in LCA is illustrated.The inventory of a life Cycle Assessment of Copper production from primary and secondary sources, of Copper and Copper alloy fabrication to semifinished and selected final products is presented. it will be published in 3 parts. ordered by 'Deutsches Kupfer-Institut' and in cooperation with the Metalle e. V. as well with various companies.The debate over the environmental impact of detergent builders has historically focused on the disposal of phosphates to wastewater and the potential consequences for surface waters. This study uses the technique of life-cycle analysis to review the overall environmental impact of the use of key detergent builders in the European Union (EU). By comparing their impacts in a relative context, the environmental impact of the major builder systems is concluded to be small, negative, and none can be considered to have a relative advantage or disadvantage. The most effective policy initiatives for environmental improvements are independent of detergent builder and should focus on use minimisation, the use of more efficient washing machines and effective implementation of the Urban Wastewater Directive.The chemical industry is becoming more and more determined by environmental and societal issues. This influence creates a framework for the chemical industry which requires a responsibility for products and processes concerning economy, ecology/safety and society. Adherence to this framework can be achieved by means of an integrated development of chemical products and processes over their whole life cycle. The key parameters are societal acceptance, inherent safety and economic and ecological efficiency, employing the corresponding methods of risk/benefit dialogue, risk analysis and life cycle analysis (LCA). This network of parameters and methods leads to the synergies which are necessary for sustainability. These abstract concepts are illustrated by practical examples. Case studies will be necessary tools to bring the promising concept of integrated product and process development to universities and to encourage the cooperation between academia and the chemical industry.A Clean Technology is a means of providing a human benefit which, overall, uses less resources and causes less environmental damage than alternative means with which it is economically competitive. Life Cycle Assessment is central to Clean Technology, as the way to identify overall resource usage and envir
onmental damage. Pollution Prevention and Waste Minimisation are important parts of Clean Technology, but more fundamental is the shift from selling products to providing services. Some specific technological challenges for the chemical and biotechnology industries are identified.The inventory of a life Cycle Assessment of Copper production from primary and secondary sources, of Copper and Copper alloy fabrication to semifinished and selected final products is presented. It will be published in 3 parts. Part 1 consists of mining, mineral processing, primary and secondary Copper production. In part 2 follow fabrication processes for copper and copper alloys to semifinished material, inclusive production of wire and cable. Part 3 show casting to final shape, as well as alloy ingot production, PCDD/PCDF-emission values and summarized statements. Finally the application of the data is shown. Mass cmd energy inventories, emission data, coupled products, waste and Co-2-emission will be shown for every single step. The presentation is given in modules. To get the whole picture, specific modules have to be added. For a few energy data this is shown in an appendix. Other values may calculated in a similar way. Ordered by Deutsches Kupfer-Institut and in cooperation with the Wirtschaftsvereinigung Metall e. V. as well as with various industrial companies.This paper summarises the basic methodology of life cycle analysis, and aims to show that without clear understanding of the technique, life cycle inventories (LCI) can be easily misused to give preferred results, or misunderstood to give erroneous results which could lead to detrimental environmental decisions. It highlights areas where most errors are likely to exist, namely through the definition of system boundaries and the collection of data, and shows through examples how these can drastically affect LCI results. The paper also touches briefly on life cycle assessment techniques, which are aimed at evaluating environmental damage, and concludes with a brief summary of the properties of an ideal LCI which would provide a comprehensive data base for life cycle assessment.Experience demonstrates that the life cycle assessment (LCA) for a complex manufactured product or an industrial manufacturing process works most effectively when it is done semiquantitatively and in modest depth. To facilitate such assessments, we have devised an abridged LCA matrix. We discuss the concepts leading to this matrix and give examples of check lists and evaluations to guide assessors in valuing the matrix elements. The matrix scoring system provides a straightforward means of comparing options, and we recommend ''target plots'' as convenient and visually arresting ways of calling attention to those design and implementation aspects whose modification could most dramatically improve the assessment rating. We demonstrate these tools by performing assessments on familiar products: generic automobiles of the 1950s and 1990s.The analysis focuses on a comparative evaluation of emissions from conventional private passenger vehicles versus the environmental burdens of electric passenger vehicles. The batteries of electric passenger vehicles are loaded during daily working hours partly via silicon-based PV panels covering the vehicle parking areas (solar service stations), and partly via the public electric grid. The data 
base refers to Western Germany, and the tentative time period is around 2005. The analysis is based on detailed data collections for the fabrication of technical silicon, multi- and monocrystalline standard, MIS-I cells, and amorphous cells. The information on substance discharges into the environment permitted an environmental assessment to be made via evaluation criteria, quantitatively expressed as burden values. The results lead to the following main conclusions on the environmental impacts of Si-PV cells and to the major recommendations for PV development focuses: To substitute SI-PV for substance-emitting technologies is environmentally beneficial, but due to its manufacturing processes PV is not a zero emitter; supporting structures should be as low-weight as possible with minimized material requirements for low emissions from PV-system fabrication; PV only makes sense for applications relevant to the energy economy with high-efficiency modules and minimized electricity demand to enable solar supply shares to be as high as possible; and highest development priority should be given to the industrial fabrication maturity of high-efficiency modules.A Life-Cycle Analysis Inventory (LCI) has been compiled by the European LCI Surfactant Study Group (CEFIC/ECOSOL) and Franklin Associates Limited for the production of major surfactants presently used in European detergent products, specifically LAS, AS, AES, soap, SAS, AE and APG. These are derived from petrochemical and oleochemical intermediates. The Life-Cycle Inventory is comprehensive and includes energy and material requirements as well as environmental emissions and solid waste associated with all phases of surfactant production. A Peer Review Panel has reviewed the study in accordance with the principles recommended by SETAC. The study shows that each system has an impact on the environment via the consumption of a broad variety of resources such as crude oil, natural gas, agricultural products and minerals for material feedstock, energy generation and transport purposes. Also environmental releases occur during the production and transport of all surfactant systems. Based on the findings, no unequivocal technical rationale exists far claiming overall environmental superiority neither for production of individual surfactants nor for the various options for sourcing from petrochemical and oleochemical/agricultural feedstocks and minerals. The value of the study lies in allowing each manufacturer to assess opportunities for improving the environmental profile of their surfactants and intermediates. The study has demonstrated the need for co-operation with organisations located earlier as well as later in the product Life-Cycle chain. Furthermore, the findings have indicated that there is a benefit in looking beyond the scope of the surfactant producers, for example by assessments of energy generation systems, and by making emission control techniques available on a broader basis. The European LCI Surfactant Study Group hopes that publication of these findings will contribute to environmental improvements via a constructive use of the data and to objective rather than judgmental assessments of the environmental profile of surfactant production.This review presents the current status of wind turbine technology and recent advances in understanding the long history of wind energy, Reason
s for the convergence of technological solutions towards a horizontal axis concept with two or three blades are discussed, and the advances in materials science are identified as determinants of the change toward increasing optimum turbine size. The modest environmental impacts of wind turbines are illustrated by recent life-cycle analyses, and the economic incentive structure and power buy-back rates in different countries are invoked to explain the variation in wind technology penetration in countries with similar resource potentials, Finally, the possible future role of wind technology is discussed, based on resource estimates, competing land demands, government commitments and technological trends, including the recent offshore wind farm developments.Application of Linear Programming (LP) Modelling to Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a novel approach to analysing and managing the environmental performance of a complete product system. Not only can it solve the problem of allocation of environmental burdens in the Inventory stage of the LCA, but it also enables the environmental optimum of the system to be investigated. Once the environmental burdens have been allocated amongst different products on the basis of marginal changes in activities, they are aggregated to quantify environmental impacts and then reduced to a single environmental impact function which is treated as a new objective function of the LP model. The LP solution then gives the environmental optimum of the system and identifies places where improvements can be made. If multiobjective LP is applied, then the environmental performance of the system can be combined with other requirements, such as societal preferences or economics, thus giving the best compromise for the system performance. The idea behind this approach is illustrated by a simplified analysis of a system to produce thermoplastics.A Methodology for Environmental Impact Minimization (MEIM) is presented in this paper. The methodology, which embeds Life Cycle Analysis principles within a process optimization framework, involves proper definition of a consistent boundary around the process of interest, identification of the emissions inventory, quantification of environmental impact via proper metrics (for air and water pollution, solid waste, global warming and ozone depletion) and inclusion of environmental criteria within process modelling and optimization tools. A case study, the production of VCM from ethylene, is presented to illustrate the basic features of MEIM.A life cycle analysis approach is employed to determine the combined potential global warming impacts of carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide emissions arising from the production, supply and use of coal, oil and natural gas in the United Kingdom. The study pays particular attention to recurring claims that the methane emissions associated with gas industry activities are removing the inherent low carbon advantage of natural gas. The results illustrate that natural gas maintains a clear lead as the least impacting fossil fuel and further demonstrates that the higher utilisation efficiency that natural gas maintains over coal and oil systems in many industrial, commercial and domestic applications, increases those advantages still further.This study demonstrated an integrated waste minimization approach for the printed circuit board manufactu
ring shop of Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory (LBL). It included process waste assessment, process optimization and treatability analysis of the treatment system, and source reduction assessment. The results of a process waste assessment indicated that over 99.5% of the waste stream was rinsewater and less than 0.5% was characterized as hazardous waste. This finding led to a thorough source reduction assessment. From the process and treatability analysis, it was found that an organic chelating ligand in the wastewater was causing a copper precipitation problem. The results of a series of bench and process experiments indicated that optimization of pH, chemical dosage, and addition of ferrous sulfate were needed to destabilize the complexed copper. The destabilization mechanism of Cu-EDTA with ferrous sulfate at pH 6-9 was discussed. Different separation/recycling technologies were also evaluated through the source reduction assessment. A closed-loop process was simulated and designed. Through the source reduction and treatment process optimization efforts, at least 90% reduction of total acid wastes and wastewater and more than 99% metal removal were achieved. A material life cycle analysis was also performed. The results indicated that a total quality control strategy is crucial to minimize wastes and reduce product rejection rate.
 Africa is one of the regions of the world potentially most vulnerable to climate change. Warming of the globe due to increased atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases appears to be inevitable. Therefore, it is imperative that policy makers in regions such as Africa begin to consider what measures they should take to adapt to the potential conseqences of climate change. A number of adaptation policies are suggested here. The policies address general adaptation measures as well as specific measures in water resources, coastal resources (adapting to sea-level rise), forests, ecosystems, and agriculture. These measures would enhance the flexibility of resources to adapt to climate change and would have net benefits greater than costs. In some cases, the measures make sense without considering climate change because they help address current climate variability. In other cases, the measures must be implemented in anticipation of climate change because they would be ineffective if implemented as a reaction to climate change. One of the most pressing environmental issues today is the possibility that projected increases in global emissions of greenhouse gases from increased deforestation, development, and fossil-fuel combustion could significantly alter global climate patterns. Under the terms of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, signed in Rio de Janeiro during the June 1992 Earth Summit, the United States and other industrialized countries committed to balancing greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels in the year 2000. Included in the treaty is a provision titled ''Joint Implementation,'' whereby industrialized countries assist developing countries in jointly modifying long-term emission trends, either through emission reductions or by protecting and enhancing greenhouse gas sinks (carbon sequestration). The US Climate Action Plan, signed by President Clinton in 1993, calls for voluntary climate change mitigation measures by various sectors, and the action plan included a new program, the US Initiative on Joint implementation. Wisconsin Electric decided to invest in a JI project because its concept encourages creative, cost-effective solutions to environmental problems through partnering, international cooperation, and innovation. The project chosen, a forest preservation and management effort in Belize, will sequester more than five million tons of carbon dioxide over a 40-year period, will become economically self-sustaining after ten years, and will have substantial biodiversity benefits.This paper discusses methodological lessons and empirical results of climate change mitigation assessment for developing countries with a special emphasis on economic studies, National study results are discussed in relation to expected general international development trends in greenhouse gas emissions. It is concluded that greenhouse gas emissions from developing countries certainly will increase in the future due to economic development needs. There is however a large and relatively cheap potential for emission reductions connected to efficiency improvements in industrial production and general energy efficiency improvements in the countries. The implementation of greenhouse gas mitigation strategies is interrelated with general national economic development policies. The macroeconomic impact of implementing climate chang
e mititgation strategies is assessed on the basis of two case studies for Zimbabwe and Venezuela and it is concluded that project implementation and economic welfare improvement in some cases can be achieved simultaneously. The methodological basis for macroeconomic assessment and for the establishment of baseline scenarios are critically discussed in relation to the specific planning context of developing countries and recommendations are given on research requirements. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd.This paper summarizes selected studies of the potential and cost of carbon emissions mitigation strategies in the post-planned economies. The economies of the Former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe present significant opportunities and serious difficulties in energy related carbon dioxide emissions mitigation. This region in 1990 accounted for over one-fifth of global energy consumption and energy related greenhouse gas emissions. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd.Even with changes in the industrial structure and continued improvement in energy efficiency, China's economic development and strong reliance on its indigenous coal resources will lead to large increases in its CO2 emissions in the next century. A number of technical options exist that can provide benefits to China's economic development, help protect the national environment, and also contribute to climate change mitigation. These include improvement of energy efficiency in all sectors of the economy; greater use of energy resources such as natural gas, hydropower, nuclear power, and renewable energy instead of coal; and afforestation. Promotion of these options is in accord with China's strategy for sustainable development and its energy policy, which call for rational resource utilization and environmental protection.Renewable energy, especially its new forms, starts from a very small base. The pace of recent development and diffusion has been too slow, and effective action is required to accelerate development and diffusion. The paper provides the results of recently published work on global energy perspectives, based on six long-term scenarios, with particular respect to the possible contribution of renewable energy.Solar energy is one option for reducing future greenhouse gas emissions, Offsetting 50% of all future growth in thermal electricity generation by photovoltaics (PVs) would reduce annual global carbon dioxide emission from projected increased levels by 10% in 20 years and 32% in 50 years, Several projects are under way worldwide to demonstrate the feasibility of PV systems, This paper examines the economic competitiveness of PV systems and concludes that even after including externality costs, without significant technological breakthroughs, the economics of PV applications are unlikely to allow for an unsubsidized, widespread adoption of this technology in the near future, Further, if the goal of PV transfer programmes is to limit future greenhouse gas emissions, there are larger and cheaper opportunities available in industrialized countries to achieve reductions, Alternative measures for ensuring a market for photovoltaics, hence providing manufacturers with opportunities to improve the current technology, include mandating that utilities install a certain quantity of solar technologies by a certain date, Finally, moving towards a rene
wable energy future that includes PV systems requires a sustained R&D programme that will lead to improvements in panel and other system efficiencies.Future developments of the Bulgarian economy, energy demand, energy supply, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are projected and evaluated for baseline and mitigation scenarios. Different methods and approaches are used at different stages of the study with a tendency to incorporate them in a single integrated resource planning tool such as the MARKAL-MACRO model. The results obtained indicate that the aim of Framework Convention of Climate Change to have year 2000 GHG emissions below the base year 1988 emissions will be achieved without further mitigation steps. Reducing the expected increase of GHG emissions in the decade 2000 to 2010 requires a package of mitigation measures to be implemented in the next few years.The participation of developing countries in climate change mitigation requires that mitigation projects be compatible with general national social and economic development objectives in the countries. This paper outlines a methodological framework for the assessment of the cost of climate change mitigation The cost assessment involves a comparison between baseline development trends and a climate change mitigation scenario. It recommends constructing baseline scenarios on the basis of a critical evaluation of official macroeconomic development programmes in the countries. Country study results for Venezuela and Zimbabwe are referenced and methodological lessons are drawn. In this paper we introduce the concept of 'islands of sustainability'. The basic assumption is that the development towards sustainability can be introduced starting from sustainable 'islands'. An island is an area where sustainability is reached at a local or regional level. Exchange activities within the regional network and with the environment are key points in creating an island of sustainability. One of the main theses is that the concept of sustainability addresses not only the interactions between the economic system and the ecosphere but also structural aspects of the anthropogenic system, such as the economic diversity and economic connectedness. Hence, sustainability is linked to the complexity of the regional network. In order to attain sustainability the intensity, the speed, and comprehensiveness of internal and external interactions, as well as the connectedness of the regional network, have to be changed. In this paper we examine the regional system. The structure, elements, interactions, and boundaries of the regional system are discussed in detail. This systems analysis is the basis of the definition of islands of sustainability. Once we reach sustainable development within islands, we then turn our discussion to the change of the whole unsustainable economic system. Islands of sustainability can be seen as 'troublemakers' which infiltrate the whole unsustainable system and act as cells of development.Many proponents of industrial ecology have asserted that the declining volume of raw materials used per unit of gross national product (GNP) constitutes a process of ''dematerialization.'' They have suggested that this process could allow continued growth in production and wealth while attenuating adverse impacts on the environment. Dematerialization, however, has been a central strategy for red
ucing production costs since before the beginnings of industrial capitalism Historically it has been associated with expanded, rather than contracted use of raw materials. Besides ignoring the historical record, proponents of dematerialization have failed to recognize that absolute volume of material consumed rather than volume relative to GNP is the significant measure in ecological terms. On a global scale, the volumes and the distances transported of major minerals have increased over the periods for which dematerialization has been claimed.This paper discusses the transformation of values underpinning the shift toward an industrial ecology by a broad spectrum of stakeholders representing many disciplines. A series of models discuss the shift from anthropocentrism toward biocentrism - moving all stakeholders ever closer to sustainability. At the core of the paper is a model that elucidates how value shifts transpire and is presently underway among a growing number of diverse stakeholders. The second half of the paper discusses several industrial initiatives that recognize the blending of economics, econology ethics, technology and government policy: (1) environmental standards; (2) environmental tools of analysis; (3) best management practices; and (4) environmental accounting.The term industrial ecology was conceived to suggest that industrial activity can be thought of and approached in much the same way as a biological ecosystem and that in its ideal form it would strive toward integration of activities and cyclization of resources, as do natural ecosystems. Beyond this attractive but fuzzy notion, little has been done to explore the usefulness of the analogy. This paper examines the structural framework of biological ecology and the tools used for its study, and it demonstrates that many aspects of biological organisms and ecosystems (for example, food webs, engineering activities, community development) do have parallels in industrial organisms and ecosystems. Some of the tools of biological ecology appear to be applicable to industrial ecology, and vice versa. In a world in which no biological ecosystem is free of human influence and no industrial ecosystem is free of biological influence, it is appropriate to abandon the artificial division between the two frameworks and develop a new synthesis-Earth system ecology-as the logical construct for all of Earth's ecosystems.This paper examines the impact of biotechnology for enhancing the quality of the environment, and the necessity of encouraging holistic approaches to environmental problem solving. Current actions are considered wanting because they place insufficient attention on the causes of environmental degradation. In this context, a number of issues and research agendas are presented, a consideration of which leads me to opine that urgent priorities for ensuring lasting sustainable development must include the widespread adoption of clean technology and ecosystem restoration. Biotechnology has a particularly decisive role to play in realizing clean processes and clean products, and this role is illustrated with reference to clean technology options in the industrial, agroforestry, food, raw materials, and minerals sectors. A quarter of a century ago Commoner (1971) used the metaphor of a closing circle to draw attention to incompatibilities of modern industrial society and 
ecological health. The second part of this paper argues that, as biotechnology has matured, a circle of synergistic flows of materials, services and ideas has been established between it and biodiversity and suggests a more optimistic scenario to that portrayed by Commoner. The closing of the biotechnology-biodiversity circle is manifest in the following terms: search and discovery; detection, circumscription and phylogeny; ecosystem function and restoration; industrial ecology; and the gearing provided by molecular biology. Finally, the North-South biotechnology-biodiversity circle presents critical problems of commercial exploitation and intellectual property rights in relation to the gene pools of the megadiversity but predominantly developing countries of the world.Scientists, policy-makers, and the general public are becoming increasingly aware of environmental damage associated with the large and growing material through-put required in modern industrial society. One approach emerging in response to these concerns is called Industrial Ecology (IE). IE signals a shift from 'end-of-pipe' pollution control methods towards holistic strategies for prevention and planning of more environmentally sound industrial development. However, the broad umbrella of IE currently houses a diverse group of scholars, consultants, and environmentalists, who range in scope from those advocating incremental changes in existing systems, to some promoting a total transformation of industrial activity. This article presents a critical review of the existing US literature on IE. We introduce and critique IE's primary concepts, and analyse weaknesses and gaps in IE's conceptual framework. We also discuss the needs and potential for advancing if concepts and projects in the future.After a brief review of the evolution of the steel industry during the past 25 years, some basic definitions are presented, including that of industrial ecology, advanced materials, and ''green'' materials. Then, we discuss the environmental problems that are inherently associated with both conventional and novel steel processing technologies, touching on pollution control, waste minimization and recycling. The important conclusion is reached that when modern technologies are employed, steel is both an advanced material and a green material. Particularly noteworthy in the finding is that steel is one of the most recycled materials in current use. The paper concludes with the enumeration of the tasks ahead and with the definition of the steelplant of the future, which will have to be clean, environmentally benign, located close to the customer and will produce no waste. Indeed, it may derive significant revenue streams from the treatment of wastes produced by other industrial activities. By its very nature, the future steelplant will have to use some mixture of scrap and virgin iron units. It will be frugal on energy, highly flexible in operation, and will expolit synergies with other industrial systems.Industrial Ecology, by emulating the ecology of nature, is production with zero waste. Whatever is left over as a result of any particular transforming action or process is consumed in some other activity. Zero industrial waste seems near impassible. But left over materials can be recycled or reused. Waste water can be purified; air discharges rendered harmless. Knowledge is coming to t
he fore to reduce waste and mitigate damaging effects. Life Cycle Analysis is a methodology to evaluate all environmental impacts including acquisition of raw materials, manufacturing, transportation, product use and final disposition. Design for Environment is a discipline to achieve improvement. Design for Disassembly at the end of a product's life makes reclamation practical. An Industrial Ecology Conceptual Framework useful in generating additional needed knowledge is presented.This paper selectively reviews Professor Julian, Szekely's research contributions in the two decades since he joined MIT. The paper describes Szekely's research strategy and style and examines how he developed understanding of disparate materials processing systems while maintaining a unifying focus on fluid flow phenomena. Szekely's interdisciplinary skill is demonstrated by his ability to simultaneously study electromagnet driven flows, gas stirred melts, transport phenomena in plasmas, solidifying systems, multiphase phenomena in packed beds and industrial ecology. It is suggested that Szekely's work constitutes a foundation and a lasting contribution to the burgeoning discipline of mathematical modeling of materials processing. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an environmental auditing tool that quantifies the environmental burdens of an activity inclusive of all its related systems. In the past, LCA has been applied primarily to products, but recent literature suggests it also has potential as an analysis and design tool for processes and services. This potential arises from the unique ability of LCA to link the environmental burdens of a process with its mass and energy flows. The aim of this work is to apply LCA as a tool for process design rather than one for product assessment. A nitric acid plant formed the basis for a case study wherein LCA was used to quantify and compare environmental performance of a number of design alternatives aimed at waste reduction. Economic models for the alternatives were formulated and linked to the environmental models to perform a multiobjective optimization with the express aim to maximize economic returns and minimize environmental impact. The comparative study showed that one design alternative teas clearly superior from an environmental point of view. The optimization demonstrated that operational changes could result in significant environmental improvement at minimal economic cost. Future work in this area should focus on the allocation of environmental burdens from multiple-output processes as well as extending the analysis to include environmental and economic impacts of all related downstream processes.There is potential for significant change in the U.S. Surfactants market. The factors working to cause change include new laundry powder formulation technology, the introduction of washing machines which meet proposed Department of Energy regulations, increased use of enzymes, environmental considerations, environmental considerations, increased mildness and clarity for dish liquids and the introduction of dish liquids with antibacterial action. Life Cycle Analysis techniques have demonstrated that the comparison between the environmental impact of oleochemical and petrochemical based surfactants is more complex than was thought. In the future the choice between surfactants from the two different feedstock sources 
will largely be governed by cost and performance considerations. In spite of the potential for change it is forecast that the surfactant types enjoying large volume sales today will continue to be the most widely used products in the future. The reason for this is the expense incurred in developing and securing environmental approval for new molecules and the cost/performance already available from existing products. On a global basis LAS will remain the workhorse surfactant. However, mature surfactant markets such as the U.S., Europe and Japan will increase the use of alcohol based derivatives (alcohol sulphate, alcohol ethoxylates and alcohol ethoxysulphates).The road transport sector has been studied with a life-cycle perspective. Transport activities and products used for road transportation have been analysed in order to identify those with significant contribution to the total environmental impact. Detailed data on the environmental burdens caused by different transportation activities such as fuel production, fuel combustion at driving, maintenance of the vehicle and production and after use treatment of the vehicle have been collected and transformed into a form usable in life cycle assessment (LCA). A comprehensive and flexible system model for description of road transportation systems has been developed. A software program, KRABAT, has been developed from the system model. The program has been used for calculation of the environmental burdens of road transportation. The use of non-renewable energy is sometimes used as an indicator of the environmental impact of activities. In this study the consumption of non-renewable fuels, electricity and air emissions have been considered. The production, maintenance and after use treatment of the vehicle have shown to contribute significantly to the total environmental impact of road transportation, measured per vehicle kilometer. This is especially valid for passenger cars, for which the amount of fossile fuel used for production of the vehicle is about 10% of the total amount used during the whole life time of the car. This share is generally much smaller for trucks, since they are used more frequently than passenger cars. The treatment of the different materials of the car after use is of importance for the possibilities of minimization of the environmental impact from road transport. In a case study, the environmental burdens from all processes and transports in the life cycle of newspapers have been analysed. Two after use treatment scenarios were studied. one with 70% recycling and the other with 100% incineration with heat recovery. The total contribution of environmental burdens from transportation to the total of the whole life cycle were studied. It could not be concluded that transportation increased with a higher degree of recycling. This holds true for our assumptions. The result may however be different for other geographical conditions, population densities, etc.We analyze the structure of the impact pathway methodology and show that, for the important problem of calculating the expectation value of the marginal damage from a point pollution source, the equations can be simplified greatly. Ln particular, in a uniform world (uniform receptor density and uniform atmosphere) they can be integrated in closed form to yield a very simple formula for the total damage D-uni in a uni
form world. The generalization to secondary pollutants is straightforward. We then test the relevance of this simple formula in the real world, by using curve fits to the results of derailed models for atmospheric dispersion and chemistry and by varying the receptor density according to typical patterns. We also compare D-uni with the output of a software package that carries out an accurate numerical integration of atmospheric dispersion results over geographic data for population and other receptors. Evaluating a set of five sites in France that appear generally representative, ranging from rural to extremely urban, we find that the true damage is within a factor of three of D-uni. This remarkably small sensitivity to geographical detail can be explained by the conservation of matter. We provide guidelines for several questions that are relevant for environmental policy: what are the functional relations and key parameters, as input to an uncertainty analysis? How does the damage vary with key parameters, e.g. stack height? How much accuracy and resolution is needed, in the atmospheric modeling and in the data for receptor distribution? How large is the error if one uses typical average values rather than detailed calculations? Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science LtdLife-cycle assessments (LCA) as a tool for the evaluation of the environmental burdens occurring during the life-cycle oi a product are increasing in significance for environmental oriented decisions in industry, trade and politics. However, there are still several methodological issues which are not yet clarified. In the international discussions on ICA an agreement has been generally achieved concerning the structure of LCAs based on the four steps scoping/goal definition, inventory analysis, impact assessment and evaluation. The methodological framework for scoping/goal definition and inventory analysis is widely developed. in the fields of impact assessment and evaluation several methodological alternatives are under discussion. Therefore, most oi the published LCAs focus on the inventory analysis evaluating material and energy flows as system inputs as well as outputs in terms of air- and water-borne emissions or solid waste. The results of an inventory analysis are beneficial e.g. for ecological improvements in product development or for weak point analyses and process optimizations. Even with inventory analyses, problems must be solved with the allocation of environmental burdens (energy, emissions, waste) related to the production of primary raw materials between products made of these primary raw materials and those made of recycled material. This issue is a challenge when waste paper is recycled. The paper deals with methodology of LCA focusing on allocation issues. In a case study two allocation approaches are presented and discussed.There is a growing concern about the concept of environmental quality (EQ) in the building product industry. A classification of existing EQ models is presented, as well as a discussion of the underlying assumptions of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) and the significance of the results. It is proposed that some modifications to the classic LCA model are necessary to take into account the characteristics of building products and their associated actors. Some of these modifications can be achieved through simple extensions within the existing
 framework, others call for specific developments of the framework. A list of requirements is presented for building product specific EQ evaluation and improvement methodologies based on LCA. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd.When marketing environmentally responsible packaged products, the producer is confronted with consumer beliefs concerning the environmental friendliness of packaging materials. When making environmentally conscious packaging decisions, these consumer beliefs should be taken into account alongside the technical guidelines. Dutch consumer perceptions of the environmental friendliness of packaged products are reported and compared with the results of a life-cycle analysis assessment. It is shown that consumers judge environmental friendliness mainly from material and returnability. Furthermore, the consumer perception of the environmental friendliness of packaging material is based on the postconsumption waste, whereas the environmental effects of production are ignored. From the consumer beliefs concerning environmental friendliness implications are deduced for packaging policy and for environmental policy.In this paper the method employed for a detailed economic analysis of a solar energy system is presented. A spreadsheet computer program is used as a tool for the economic analysis because the general format of such a program is a table with cells which can contain values or formulae and the fact that they incorporate many build-in functions. System optimisation is also presented through an example for a hot water system. Both of them show that the method presented here is both accurate and fast. Although the method presented here deals with solar systems, it is applicable to all energy producing systems and consequently to all renewable energy systems.In most industrial countries, waste management is giving way to an emphasis on recycling. The effects of this change have been particularly noticeable on the electrical engineering and electronics sectors, which often require tailor-made materials. Siemens' EcoCOMPASS, which conforms to Germany's new Closed Substance Cycle Waste Management Act, provides valuable assistance in making decisions regarding the design of innovative, rationally priced, and environmentally compatible products.Appropriate design and construction can reduce the environmental impact of buildings over their entire life cycle. Such a prevention strategy can be supported by an evaluation tool. Our approach consists of applying life cycle analysis to the building sector. The use of computers is preferred for an easier comparison of alternative designs and to test possible improvements of a project. We adopted an object oriented approach in order to link models with professional practice. A data structure has been defined, in which a building is decomposed into objects. The corresponding classes include both data (inventories of basic materials and processes) and methods (accounting for fabrication, recycling, etc.). The result of such an evaluation is an environmental profile, constituted from various indicators on natural resources used, environmental effects and waste produced. First sensitivity analysis were performed showing the importance of the utilisation phase with its associated energy, water and waste fluxes. The environmental performance of a building is a result of a sequence of de
cisions like the choice of the building site, design choices, occupant's behaviour, etc. The potential applications of this research are to inform the various actors about the consequences of their choices, to assess the environmental interest of innovative technologies (e.g. solar components) and to develop new tools for practitioners. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is essentially a material and energy balance over the entire life cycle of a material, product or service to determine its interaction with its environment and to assess its impact on the environment. Most LCAs have so far been of specific consumer products. This paper develops a method for LCA of the base materials, which are derived from many different products, in municipal waste. The method quantifies the environmental impact of all stages in the life of a material: production, product manufacture and use, and waste disposal. It includes impacts apportioned from general industrial processes, such as transport and electricity generation. Measures of specific environmental impacts, for example SO2 emissions and NOx emissions, are aggregated wherever possible into environmental loads, in this case units of polluted air. Recycling is widely believed to reduce the burden of product life cycles on the environment. However, consideration of the additional loads due to the extra operations needed to recycle material often casts doubt on this belief. The method is designed for comparing the environmental loads of various rates of material recycle with the other waste management options of landfill and incineration. The method is applied to aluminium. It is shown that recycling aluminium considerably reduces all the environmental loads considered, compared to landfill and incineration.A simple framework for environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA) based on physical measures is presented and applied to the comparison of long-distance energy transport systems, including high-voltage alternating and direct current transmission lines, pipelines for gas and oil, inland waterway, road and rail transportation. Quantitative indicators for fossil-energy consumption, air-emission impacts, land use, audible noise impacts, and visual impacts are developed. These can be used in the context of existing planning or decision making instruments, such as integrated resource planning, technology assessment, LCA, regional planning, line and power plant siting. To reduce all information to a single indicator, the concept of the equivalent impacted area is introduced for land use, audible noise and visual impacts. It is shown that pipelines are the environmentally most favourable option in the case of oil and gas transport. In the case of coal transport, early conversion to electricity and transmission by high-voltage lines can lead to significant impact reductions compared to coal transport with barges and trains. For long transport distances, high-voltage direct current lines yield particularly good results. (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd.The comparison of the ecological aspects of production processes and products are playing an increasingly important role in the decision-making processes of e.g. public enterprise and consumer behaviour. Raw materials such as wood and wood-based products are also being affected by these developments. The listing of all material an
d energy flows, starting with the production of wood in the forest to the manufacturing of products up to and including the further use or disposal of wood products provides the basis for the elaboration of product-related life-cycle analyses. This paper presents, structures and discusses the first two modules ''Wood Production in the Forest'' and ''Sawn Timber Manufacture'' in the life-cycle analysis of wood products.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) aspire to quantify the potential environmental impacts of a product system throughout its life cycle. The technique is used to identify and realize opportunities to improve the environmental aspects of processes, and to compare between products with equivalent function and performance in order to select the environmentally best ones. Especially when the intended application is a comparative assertion, it is inevitable that the key features and methodological framework currently discussed in ISO be accepted and applied to fulfill the specific requirements of transparency, completeness, reproducibility, reliability, and consistency. Because construction affects our environment to a significant extent, building materials and products have been evaluated in LCA studies for several years. In this context, wood and timber based products do have an exceptional position, in that they are produced from a resource which itself is an integral part of the forest ecosystem. It has not yet been possible to quantify the environmental benefits of sustainable forestry to such an extent that they can be used in LCA to underline the environmental benefits of wood with CO2-storage being the exception to the rule. Nevertheless, the examples selected from applications in building construction and power supply lines manifest that timber derived products have an excellent environmental position when compared to alternative products. This is mainly due to the sparing use of fossile energy resources, low contribution to the greenhouse effect, and small waste volume.This article gives a review of practical applicability of Life Cycle Assessment for wooden constructions. The problems of data collection in this field and related problems are discussed. The report is restricted to the specific situation and experience of the WeberHaus company (wood based houses). The aim of this report is not to present scientific results, but to offer some inside into practical handling of ecological based management notwithstanding the need of further scientific support.The so-called allocation or partitioning problem which is still indeterminable in life cycle assessment (LCA) has been studied. The phi balance defined in this study is used to describe the relations of inputs and outputs in each subsystem consisting of the whole environment system. In doing so, the mass balance of pollutant materials in environment system under consideration is expressed in much smaller dimension compared to the case where the conventional mass balance is employed and thus the mathematical procedure is highly simplified in establishing a computer program for calculating the cumulative CO2 emission unit which is equivalent to the total quantity of CO2 emitted to the atmosphere to produce the present material or energy from raw fossil resources. The cumulative CO2 emission unit which is an indicative value of CO2 pollution used in this study of LCA are calcula
ted for some petrochemical materials for plastics depending on several kinds of partitionings.The whole life cycle of a product or system has to be considered to prevent the neglect or shift of important environmental consequences.Two types of Japanese CO2 emissions inventories were compiled based on energy balance and input-output tables. The first inventory covers the years 1965 to 1990 and clearly describes historical changes in the emission structure by sector and by origin. The second inventory, covering the years 1975 to 1990, provides us with not only a detailed sectoral breakdown of direct emissions, but also opportunities for broader application based on the ''embodied emission intensity''. We applied the concept of emissions intensity to several issues, including analyses of structural changes in emissions from the viewpoint of the final demand of the economy, implications of embodied emission in international trade, and a life-cycle analysis of CO2 emissions from an automobile. The results proved that emissions inventories can be effectively used for mitigation assessments, both in economic analyses and in technological assessments.The IEA Greenhouse Gas programme is the principal international collaboration on R&D into mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions. It is actively supported by 16 countries as well as 3 industrial sponsors. The programme undertakes analysis of options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels, disseminates the results and develops targets for future R&D. In its first 4 years of work, the programme has carried out 24 separate studies, initially focusing on technologies to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power generation. Assessments cover technologies to capture, store and utilise greenhouse gases. The first life-cycle analysis of power generation incorporating carbon dioxide removal has been completed and valuable lessons learnt about methods suitable for this purpose. More recently work has begun on mitigation of other greenhouse gases and reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from different sources. In addition, targets for research are identified and plans are developed for demonstration of appropriate technologies. A variety of publications are produced, reporting results of this work, as well as stimulating dialogue about greenhouse issues through the medium of a regular newsletter.The complex structure of energy supply systems and the range of environmental issues involved, make decisions regarding the use of new or improved energy resources and energy technologies far from being straightforward. A life-cycle approach is required to reveal the full potential for an option to realize increased energy performance and reduced emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, the life-cycle assessment reveals possible bottlenecks regarding other environmental issues.The IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme is an international collaboration supported by 16 countries and several industrial organisations. Its purpose is to evaluate technologies for reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. In the first 3 years of work, the programme concentrated on CO2 emissions from power stations. The main types of power plant and various technologies for capturing CO2 were examined. Storage and utilisation options for CO2 were assessed. The work culminated in the life cycle assessment reported here of 3 fossil
 fuel based power generation cycles in which CO2 was captured and stored. For each fuel cycle, one natural gas and two coal based, a full 'cradle-to-grave' analysis of emissions was made. A fundamental objective was to establish a consistent and transparent methodology which could form the basis for comparing technical responses to the possibility of global warming. The paper discusses the logic behind the assumptions, and limitations in the data and methodolgy. The uncertainty of much of the data on environmental externalities is recognised and a distinction made between lack of scientific data and the influence of value judgements. External costs that were quantified are small relative to the private costs.In this study, the quantity of CO2 emitted resulting from the construction of a solar cell power station in Indonesia using Japanese-manufactured modules was calculated by means of life cycle analysis, and was compared with that from the production of an analogous power station in Japan using the same modules. The CO2 emitted per unit of electrical energy generated by the power station in Indonesia is less than that of the analogous Japanese station because solar energy is available in larger quantities. However, due to the present relative inefficiency of Indonesian thermal power plants, CO2 emissions per unit electrical energy grows larger than that using Japanese-manufactured modules if Indonesian-manufactured modules are used. This analysis suggests that solar cell power generation systems be used in low latitudes where high-efficiency has been demonstrated, and that cooperation between developed and developing countries is essential for the utilization of solar energy in these regions.This paper aims at clarifying kg points for realizing sustainable energy supply under restrictions on resource and environment. For this purpose, we first developed a database to estimate life cycle efficiencies and greenhouse gas emissions for various energy systems. Then on the basis of this life cycle assessment, we quantitatively define the concept of 'Sustainability Limitations' on resource depletion and environmental emissions. From this concept, present world is judged to be unsustainable both from resource and environmental viewpoints. At the same time, we clarify how far present world is from Sustainability Limitations. Then we describe our mathematical model simulating global energy supply and demand in ultra-long term. In this model, the concept of Sustainability Limitations is utilized so as to impose economic incentives to make energy system shift to a sustainable one in long term. Sustainability limitations of resource depletion and CO2 emissions are taken into consideration. As energy resources. this model includes coal, oil, natural gas, other unconventional fossil fuels, uranium and renewable resources. As energy technologies, it includes major technologies of mining, transport, conversion and final utilization. Computed results have shown that present energy system, which is judged to be unsustainable, shifts to a sustainable system in the ultra-long term with appropriate incentives.Bleached eucalypt kraft pulps manufactured in prospective Australian greenfield pulp mills with elemental chlorine free (ECF) and totally chlorine free (TCF) bleaching sequences were compared using life cycle assessment (LCA). The comparison was restric
ted to two wood resources from different geographical areas: plantation wood from Western Australia and mature wood from Northern Tasmania. The starting point of the study was the tree harvesting stage and the end point was dried pulp. The main differences between the cases were a result of the different pulp yields of mature and plantation wood. In the Tasmanian mature wood case, more wood and slightly more fossil fuel were needed, but more power was available for external use than in the Western Australian plantation case. The fossil fuel requirement was mainly for transport and wood harvesting. The pulp mills produced more effluent, emissions to air and solid waste than the wood harvesting or transport. However the contribution of the latter activity to certain air emissions and fossil fuel consumption was appreciable. There were minor differences between the ECF and TCF cases for each wood resource.An environmental assessment has been made of five options for the treatment of sulphur dioxide in gases from metallurgical smelters. The five options are the production of sulphuric acid, elemental sulphur, saleable gypsum and disposable calcium sulphite sludge, and release of untreated sulphur dioxide to atmosphere. The specific case of treatment options for a hypothetical smelter located at a mine site was also examined. The environmental assessment method used is an adaptation of life cycle assessment methodology, and has been applied to desulphurization, transport of desulphurization products to point of use, and selected downstream processing of sulphur and sulphuric acid. Little difference is observed between the environmental performance of the desulphurization processes assessed where the products are sulphuric acid, elemental sulphur, saleable gypsum and disposable calcium sulphite sludge. If the boundary is extended to include downstream product manufacture, the impacts associated with the processing of sulphuric acid and elemental sulphur become an order of magnitude greater than the impacts of the limestone scrubbing processes producing saleable gypsum and disposable calcium sulphite sludge. Transport was found to have a minor contribution to the overall impacts.The environmental consequences of options for the manufacture, application, disposal, reuse and recycling, applicable to the Full range of currently conceived advanced window systems, are discussed. Advanced window systems may incorporate, singly and in various combinations: evacuated contiguously-sealed glazing, electrochromics, thermochromics, photochromics, aerogels, xerogels, inert gas filled double glazings, low infra-red emittance coatings, diffractive daylight deflectors, holographic daylight deflectors refractive daylight deflectors, toughened glass. The primary impetus for the development of such systems is that their use enables buildings to incur minimal energy use by reducing window heat losses and/or the displacement of electric lighting by enhanced daylighting The energy savings associated with advanced glazings displace the combustion oi fossil fuels directly and indirectly; environmental benefits thus ensue. However these benefits map be offset by the impact of energy embodied from manufacture and the negative impacts of the extraction and disposal of constituent materials. Over their total life-cycle the environmental impact for advanced glazing systems 
and their associated means of manufacture, system fabrication and the tenable reuse, recycling and disposal options are unknown. The usefulness of life cycle analyses during the research and development stage is discussed.The assessment of the adverse effects on the environment arising from the production of the raw materials to the finished product and its eventual disposal is known as a life cycle assessment The relevant information in the present instance serves to assist ail the interested parties to determine those stages in the cycle that in the case of the alkyd emulsion manufactured by Dyno Industries can be improved to reduce adverse effects, arising therefrom, on the environment. The most effective improvements derive from the constant development of modifications to the production processes and the elimination of noxious substances.In spite of the fact that solar energy is a ''clean'' energy form, gaseous pollutants are emitted during the manufacturing of the systems necessary for its utilisation. An attempt is made in this paper to estimate the level of atmospheric pollutants emitted during the successive stages which make up the manufacture process for solar water heating (SWH) systems, and to evaluate these results in comparison with the respective pollutant emission levels attributed to the generation of electricity in Greece's conventional power plants. As energy consumption is recognised as the main source of atmospheric pollution, a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) method was applied, focusing on the most energy-consuming stages of the SWH system production process. The conclusions of the analysis indicate that the emissions of gaseous pollutants associated with the utilisation of solar energy are considerably lower than those caused by the production of electricity in conventional systems, thereby substantiating that solar energy utilisation can make a notable contribution to the abatement of atmospheric pollution. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science LtdThis study proposes and demonstrates an extension of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) for the purpose of assessing the environmental and social consequences of sectorial policies. It introduces the concept of ''activity elasticity''. The method relies on relative, rather than absolute, assessments of the contribution of various activities to environmental impacts. The methodology is designed to be easy to apply, to require relatively little training for implementation and to make the most of the acquired experience of local professional staff and affected parties. The method is demonstrated by an application to the effects of the reformed CAP on a fanning community in Greece, from which it is concluded that the environmental and social costs are high. (C) 1996 Academic Press Limited.The goal of environmentally conscious design for manufacturing is to select materials and processes that minimize environmental impact. This paper describes a general and uniform way to analyze the environmental impact of manufacturing based on the product decomposition, the materials used in the manufacturing processes, and the particular view of the environment. To accomplish this task, we developed a computer program, called EcoSys(TM) that assists manufacturing engineers and environmental reviewers in assessing the environmental consequences of their manufacturing decisions.The proper selection of a wh
eelchair requires making several critical decisions, not the least of which is what type of wheelchair is appropriate. The International Organization for Standards (ISO) continues to develop and refine wheelchair standards. Standards allow the objective comparison of products from various sources, permitting consumers or clinicians to assess wheelchairs with which they are not familiar by comparing test results. This study consisted of three components: 1) the comparison of fatigue test results with a planar ANSI/RESNA test dummy to a HERL contoured test dummy; 2) the comparison of fatigue test results for common depot versus common rehabilitation manual wheelchairs; and 3) the comparison of fatigue test results for manual rehabilitation wheelchairs with solid 8-inch casters versus those with pneumatic 8-inch casters. Rehabilitation wheelchairs lasted on average 13.2 times longer than the depot wheelchairs. Both types, tested with the standard ISO-ANSI/RESNA dummy, lasted on average 2.1 times longer than those wheelchairs tested using the contoured dummy. The three rehabilitation wheelchairs equipped with 8-inch pneumatic casters lasted on average 3.2 times longer than the 6 rehabilitation wheelchairs equipped with solid 8-inch casters. The depot wheelchairs cost about 3.4 times as much to operate per cycle or per meter than the rehabilitation wheelchairs. The rehabilitation wheelchairs tended to experience component failures, while the depot wheelchairs tended to experience frame failures. Our testing indicates that the tests in the ISO-ANSI/RESNA standards can relate design features to fatigue test results and durability. Rehabilitation wheelchairs tend to use higher quality materials and better manufacturing practices, and they provide greater mobility for wheelchair users. Purchasers and prescribers of wheelchairs should consider the life-cycle cost and not just the purchase price for wheelchairs.Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) are both useful management tools for the effective and efficient avoidance and reduction of operational effects damaging to the environment. EPE and LCA, as they are termed in the international Standard ISO 14000ff, for example, are linked. The basis for EPE as well as for LCA can be a product and process analysis, for which a common inventory is useful. Implementing the enterprise modelling method and other mathematical methods makes the development and maintenance of an ecological data base less time-consuming and makes it easier to use.Approaches to implement sustainable and environmental engineering in Norwegian education and research are described in this paper. The major obstacle for the growth and implementation of interdisciplinary topics is found in the traditional university culture. Three different ways of implementing inter-disciplinary engineering education are sketched and an integrated research, education and industrial programs are described. Integration is sometimes easier in smaller universities and colleges. A successful outreach program from the much larger Norwegian University of Science and Technology to the Aalesund College is described in the area of systems engineering, life cycle assessment and cleaner production in ship yards.This paper reviews and analyzes the major recent North American studies that have compared on an environmental basis t
he major options used to manage the materials that comprise municipal solid waste (MSW). The reviewed studies provide quantitative comparative information on one or more of the following environmental parameters: solid waste output, energy use, and releases of pollutants to the air and water. The review finds that all of the studies support the following conclusions: Systems based on recycled production plus recycling offer substantial system-wide or ''life-cycle'' environmental advantages over systems based on virgin production plus either incineration or landfilling, across all four parameters examined. Only when the material recovery or waste management activities are analyzed in isolation-which does not account for the system-wide consequences of choosing one system option over another-do the virgin material-based systems appear to offer advantages over recycled production plus recycling.This paper presents a project-level evaluation of highway maintenance options using the state increment life-cycle cost analysis method. The case study utilizes pavement management data specific to the New York State Thruway Authority (NYSTA). The study demonstrates that the state increment method can be used at the project-level to:(1) assess the effect of treatments on pavement condition and remaining life, (2) determine the optimal time and condition for various treatments using stochastic dynamic programming, (3) evaluate the effects of uncertainty in pavement performance, (4) rank alternatives for each state based on life-cycle cost, and (5) provide remaining life estimates. Based on the case study results, a reasonable probabilistic representation for the pavement state transitions is selected and the condition-treatment matching rules are suitably modified. It is concluded that the presented comprehensive project-level evaluation of highway maintenance has helped adjust and validate the modeling information used in decision making.In any overall balance of hydrogen energy systems it is the way in which this energy is generated and the primary energy required to produce the equipment that are of decisive importance. Excerpts from the results of a study entitled ''Process Chain Analysis for a Hydrogen Energy System'', commissioned by the Bavarian State Ministry of Economics, Transportation and Technology, are presented and commented on.The relationship between life-cycle analysis and risk assessment is explored on a methodological level, and examples of state-of-the-art studies are presented and discussed, leading to an identification of some areas needing further work.Technology Assessment studies try to find out and evaluate the different impacts of the technologies assessed. Among these impacts the ecological impact of certain production technologies or products play an important role. A methodological tool for an improved assessment of the ecological effects is Life-Cycle-Analysis. It identifies the ecological effects 'from cradle to grave' by including the analysis of the horizontal and vertical process chains from mining of raw material through the production and use to the deposition. For each of the three parts of a Life-Cycle-Analysis - Inventory, Environmental Assessment, Valuation - the paper describes state of the art, methodological problems and likely developments.The importance of fuel cells for future low emission transportation s
ystems is well known, but in order to obtain a complete picture of the benefits there is a need to consider the environmental impact of such systems over their lifetime from manufacture to disposal. This paper presents the preliminary results of environmental life cycle analyses of fuel cell vehicle drives and other low pollution options, thus enabling a comparative assessment to be made.A quantitative method of life cycle assessment (LCA) has been developed to enable an energy audit of the process of material recycling to be carried out. An equation has been derived to provide information on the optimum balance between adverse environmental effects and beneficial recycling/reuse capabilities. The parameter analysed is the embodied energy of a material or product, but the LCA could equally be applied to other environmental burdens, such as CO2, SOx, and NOx emissions.Life cycle assessments to protect global environment and to control waste in the polymer industry are reviewed. The focus is on 1) environmentally sound technology, 2) energy conservation, and 3) recycling of industrial products. The competitiveness of a nation depends on how it balances economic development of sustainable growth and responsible care of the global environment in a borderless economy. It fully depends on the development of both environmentally sound manufacturing and effective recycling technologies for the products. Current environmental issues of the Japanese chemical industries as well as Toray's performance and new products development for environment business are reviewed: 1) Energy conservation and technology of the Japanese manufacturing industry, 2) Development of environmentally sound technology, 3) Effective products recycling technologies, and 4) Sustainable growth in the new chemical age. The future issues of life cycle assessment and environmental protection in manufacturing industries are discussed.Industrial Ecology, by emulating the ecology of nature, is production with zero waste. Whatever is left over as a result of any particular transforming action or process is consumed in some other activity. Zero industrial waste seems near impassible. But left over materials can be recycled or reused. Waste water can be purified; air discharges rendered harmless. Knowledge is coming to the fore to reduce waste and mitigate damaging effects. Life Cycle Analysis is a methodology to evaluate all environmental impacts including acquisition of raw materials, manufacturing, transportation, product use and final disposition. Design for Environment is a discipline to achieve improvement. Design for Disassembly at the end of a product's life makes reclamation practical. An Industrial Ecology Conceptual Framework useful in generating additional needed knowledge is presented.A key question for life cycle analysis has been the translation of the inventory phase of the analysis into results usable in a business environment to make product decisions. The methods routinely used to translate the many dimensions of a life cycle inventory into a single ''score'' or measure of performance have been regularly challenged on a wide range of bases. However, these criticisms fail to recognize the inherent normative nature of the exercise, where the only relevant criterion for success is the ability make a discrete choice from a limited set of alternatives, rather than identify
ing the ''best'' possible action. The need to discriminate among alternatives, rather than to optimize globally, should allow the analyst to approach the problem of life cycle analysis from a more practical perspective. This premise is tested through the application of a proposed methodology that provides a set of broad ranges of value, in $/kg of every emission, based on aggregate willingness to pay to avoid the environmental impacts of each pollutant. The ranges include scientific uncertainty, variation in context or location, and a large range of possible values for parameters that have a subjective component. The $/kg ranges can be applied to the life cycle inventories of products to produce measures of overall environmental impact. Often, these ranges are sufficient to determine which is the best of several product or process alternatives. Finally, the methodology provides a quick guide to which pollutants and parameters are the most important, which makes conclusions more transparent, and it helps focuses further analysis for decision making, if no conclusion emerges initially. This kind of methodology can be very useful if the $/kg estimates are reliable. The first half of this paper develops how the ranges were derived. Any potential user needs to understand the notions of value employed; which effects are included and which are not, what the assumptions are, and how the answers can be modified. The second half of the paper demonstrates the application of the methodology to an automotive fender case study.In the plenum closing 20 lectures on life cycle analysis for passenger cars we will attempt to formulate answers to three questions: Why do we make life cycle analysis? How do we make it? What are the methodological deficiencies and what are the areas where research is needed? In the first part I point out the relationship between sustainable development and technology assessment. Both disciplines have been jointly influencing each other and will continue to do so even more increasingly. In the second part I deal with aspects of technology assessment: the differing procedures, schemes for classification, tools (LCA among others), methods, and typical misunderstandings. In the third and last part I draw a conclusion, point out and describe where research is needed, and give an outlook.In general, the method of Process-Chain-Analysis is used to perform a Life-Cycle-Analysis which allows a very detailed analysis of the different process steps. The disadvantage of this approach is the large amount of data needed to perform the assessment. Therefore, a Hybrid-Method is presented which completes the Process-Chain-Analysis by the economic model of Input-Output-Analysis which is extended for calculation of emissions and primary energy demand. This Hybrid-Approach allows an estimation of the influence of processes that are not included in the Process-Chain-Analysis and give hints whether the process chain should be more detailed. Based on the presentation of the methodical background, both methods - the Hybrid-Approach and the Process-Chain-Analysis - are compared by balancing a specific freight transport task.In the coming years, higher reductions in the environmental burdens of the car will be achieved through a better design of the automobile. A controversial debate continues to surround the issue of building this environmentally frien
dly vehicle. Car designers alike anticipate new design guidelines and evaluation tools capable of reaching these environmental goals. Life Cycle Assessment is one of the tools available today with an application to assist the automobile industry with these new design goals. The paper will demonstrates the potential benefits of LCA for the new design guidelines within the automobile industry.The great success of personal transportation in the past shows for-reaching influences on our way of living and our environment. Its future will be shaped not only by population growth and urban congestion, but it will also be influenced by legal constraints in view of lowering all environmental impacts like global warming, photosmog or acidification. Hybrid vehicles are supposed to be one step towards of the solution to the above mentioned problems. In addition to conventional vehicles with internal combustion engine (ICE) they offer the possibility to the driver to enter in ''zero emission'' areas. In comparison with pure electric vehicles they can be driven beyond the range limits of the batteries. This paper points out the environmental impacts of one battery type and its application in hybrid electric power train concepts and gives an analysis of the differences among them. The environmental impacts are analysed using the Life Cycle Assessment concept. This was done considering two different driving modes (parallel and seriell) over 100 000 km according to the 1996 European driving cycle (MVEG) in order to determine the differences between a number of battery systems. At the moment following conclusions can be made: The hybrid technology shifts the energy consumption from fuels to electricity. With new battery technology fuel consumption can be reduced in both driving modes to 24% for parallel and 32% for seriell hybrid systems compared to functionally equivalent diesel vehicles. However the replacement or the reduction of fossil fuel consumption does not automatically reduce the environmental impacts such as radioactivity, (non)renewable energy depletion or global warming. In this case the results demonstrate that the largest environmental impact reduction potential for vehicles with Lead-Acid batteries is due to the reduction of the operating energy. It seems that there is no ecologically favourable vehicle system and that the choice depends on the valuation of the various environmental problems.The main difference between conventional and electric vehicles is between the drive system and energy storage. Especially the batteries play an important role within the life cycle assessment of electric vehicles. Based on our work within the ''Rugen project'' under contract with the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology we have derived full energy and mass flow analysis for the production, supply, and recycling of four types of batteries (lead/acid, Ni/Cd, Na/NiCl2 and Na/S). The balances were made in accordance with the present state of the discussion concerning the standardization of life cycle assessments (ISO DIS 14040) (''from cradle to grave'', e.g.) and considering the following impact categories: Resource demand, greenhouse effect, ozon depletion, acidification, eutrophication, human and ecotoxicity, and photosmog. Our approaches to solve problems concerning the balancing will be discussed and the most important results of the balancing of 
energy and material flows of battery life cycles will be presented.The paper compares three cars with different propulsion systems: a vehicle with conventional combustion engine, an electric vehicle and a hybrid with the combination of combustion and electric engine, which is actually developed at the TU Munich. All propulsion systems are calculated for the same basic vehicle. Fundamental value of the comparison is the cumulated energy demand of the vehicles. For these life cycle assessment user profiles have been created regarding different mileages, using times and driving cycles. Refering to primary energy balance the electric vehicle compares unfavourably with the hybrid, while hybrid and conventional vehicle show almost the same results, depending on the user profile. By contrast the cumulated emissions of the electric vehicle are better than those of the hybrid, which causes less emissions than the combustion engine.The present paper describes a Life Cycle Approach of polyurethane foams used in car seats. The LCA practice is applied on: production and assembly of polyurethane foams; use of polyurethane foams on car seats; mechanical recycling of polyurethane foams to get secondary raw materials. The main results, referred to the environmental impact in terms of energy consumption and emissions into air, seem to confirm the technical and economical feasibility of F.A.RE. (Fiat Auto REcycling) project, that, until now, has allowed the recovery of scraps destined to the landfill.This case study has been performed in the paintshop of the car manufacturer AUDI in 1995 as part of a joint project between AUDI and the GSF Research Center. The aim of the study was to compare today's method of paraffin wax with the alternative of polyolefine foils which are glued to the car surface. Up to now most new cars are protected by a layer of wax (solved in white spirit) sprayed on their surface. Upon arrival at the local car distributor the wax has to be removed with a hot Water/petroleum-mixture. To compare the two methods under ecological aspects and to identify environmental improvement potentials the method of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been performed. The LCA-software tool HERAKLIT was used to calculate extended life cycle inventories. Additionally a large set of scenarios was computed for sensitivity analysis. The results of the inventory already suggests an advantage of the foil alternative because a 200 of altogether 250 parameters lie better than those of the wax alternative. The result is also not unambiguous. For comparative assessment of the different products the large amount of data compiled in the inventory table therefore needs to be further aggregated. Extending these results, an impact assessment (IA) methodology was developed by the author in his doctoral thesis. Applying the IA methodology yields that all selected 12 impact categories are better at the foil alternative.Within a research project executed by several industrial companies, trade unions and scientific institutions life cycle assessment of the floor panel cover of a motor-car was worked out. The project aimes at an evaluation of the opportunities and limitations of such an assessment for the selection process of products and materials, neither than at the establishment of a ''hit-list'' for the products or materials itself. After evaluating the functionel requireme
nts of a motor-car panel floor cover and technical solutions four possible product-alternatives, different in the stages of practical use and development, were selected for further investigations. The data inventory started with the extraction of raw materials necessary for the final product, going through all pre-products along the life cycle and ending at the final product, its application and its use. The after use phase of the product could not be included due to technical reasons, As a result it can be stated, that life cycle assessment reveals a lot of enviromental data along the life cycle in all entities involved and can mark up some weak points on special positions. However, life cycle assessments of course donot cover all decision relevant aspects; they are an additionel and valual information basis for technically reasonable and economical projects or developments.Underwater acoustic experiments at the NATO SACLANT Undersea Research Centre, La Spezia, Italy (SACLANTCEN) are largely dependent on moored and towed instrumentation. Every year up to 500 cable terminations are made and tested in compliance with safety standards to evaluate breaking strength and fatigue effects and life-cycle analysis of fiber ropes.. Elongation and breaking strength can be determined for rope samples (maximum length 10 meters) subjected to up to 300 kN of tensile force. A computerized acquisition system records the details of safety control tests and the associated analysis. The machine also performs tension to tension cycling and ''strumming'' effect simulations on cable terminations, thus reproducing in air the two basic forcing functions on mooring lines at sea: wave action and current action. Aramid fiber ropes with advanced characteristics are being evaluated and the apparatus is being applied to the development of a new type of rope with high modulus fibers. An improved, rapid splicing technique has been developed for reliable cable terminations for long term moorings. This technique has been successfully applied to the moorings deployed during Atlantic-Ionian-Stream (AIS) 95 and Otranto Gap Experiment (OGEX2) oceanographic experiments in the Sicilian Channel and the Adriatic Sea.Software managers need to have information in order to control a software development process, One way to get this information is using data from old software projects. When this information is not available, software managers can not make precise plans to develop software. In this paper we are going to present an intelligent system that given the estimated software size in Function Points (FP) or in Source Lines of Code (SLOC), it will determine the staff, schedule, effort, and paperwork needed to complete the software life cycle (Analysis, Feasibility, Design, Implementation, Integration, and Testing). The system will also estimate how many defects will be expected during the software life cycle. With this information, software managers can make appropriate plans to develop software.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a method to track material production, consumption, and reuse. This paper explores Life Cycle Design (LCD) as an applied approach associated with the purposeful designing or manipulating of life cycle issues to meet specified perfor- mance objectives, using the design process and the built environment as mechanisms for stabilization. The paper also describes
 Life Cycle Modeling (LCM) procedures that match different performance scales through a conceptual model. Ultimately, this model will be incorporated into an object based C++ CAD programming environment. The actual presentation will demonstrate at least one partial model within a particular regional context.The necessity to dispose of always growing waste quantity (particularly of plastics post-consumer), has caused a strong helping-hand to find oriented solutions, on the one hand towards the same waste reduction's on the other hand towards their utilization as source of energy or source of secondary materials. Life-Cycle Assessment concept enters into this contest; the LCA is an objective methodology of evaluation of the energy requirements and environmental loadings associated with the product, process or activity life-cycle (from the stage of raw materials to that of last disposal). In this paper the SETAC (Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry) methodology has been used to energetically compare three different plastic materials (PVC, PE and PET containers) life-cycle for two systems: 1) two-products system A that uses virgin plastics for the containers and for not specific handmade articles; 2) two-products system B that uses only virgin plastics for containers production's and recycled plastics for not specific handmade articles. For this purpose a mathematical model has been used to quantify the inputs and the outputs of the life-cycle derived product. So we determine the energy requirements of the two systems for any possible combination between disposal alternatives (landfill, incineration with or without heat recovery) to highlight recycling savings of the system B. The energetic analysis carried out allows the energy requirement quantification to determine the possible improvements of PVC and PET separation pilot-plant that has been illustrated in a previous paper.It is increasingly apparent that VOC emission reductions from coating processes have to be seen in a broader context. Firstly there is the balance between formulation, performance and cost. Secondly the issue of environmental trade-offs which accompany reductions in the VOC content of a paint formulation. Some early results from a life cycle assessment study on car painting are presented - these consider a range of environmental impacts associated with water based base coats and compare the profile of solvent based paint with end of pipe controls for VOC. Energy considerations play a major role in the analysis - it emerges that the two paint systems are environmentally. similar; neither has an all round better performance across the environmental criteria. Particularly interesting is to compare the total ozone creating potential in each case - ozone being the driver for VOC controls. The results suggest both systems offer an example of 'best available techniques' for car painting.This paper outlines a holistic approach to the nuclear fuel cycle and the impact that waste management can have on the holistic approach. The philosophy includes regarding irradiated fuel as a resource rather than a waste that can be used as a source of fissile material to be recycled, either Uranium returned to fuel or Plutonium in MOX for fast and thermal reactors. The holistic fuel cycle demands that the cost and impact of those compounds that leave the cycle (solid waste, liqui
d effluent and gaseous effluent) are minimized. This can only be achieved by applying a full life cycle analysis of process benefits. The paper describes some of the work in waste management but notes that waste and its generation must be seen as an integral part of any developed strategy.Standard methods for assessing the environmental impact of waste management systems are needed to underpin the development and implementation of sustainable waste management practices. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an emerging tool for ensuring such assessment is comprehensive and covers the full ''cradle to grave'' impacts associated with providing a product or service. This paper discusses aspects of a recent study commissioned by the U.K. Department of the Environment to assess how LCA methodology could be developed and applied to assist decision makers in waste management. It focuses on a method developed by the research contractors for identifying the environmental burdens that occur during the collection, treatment and disposal of non-hazardous waste. The method requires waste management activities to be defined as generic unit operations which are independent of the specific characteristics of the waste processed. These unit operations are used to flowsheet the specific system under study and burdens that are independent of the waste are identified. Waste-dependent burdens are identified separately by considering the interaction of unit operations and the specific characteristics exhibited by the waste under study. For identification purposes a restricted list of 10 characteristics is considered sufficient to highlight those burdens for which inventory data may be required, Comment is made on the potential to develop the identification method to provide quantified data for the burden inventory. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science LtdThe most universal of all binders, produced in huge quantities worldwide, is Portland cement. Following introduction in 1824 by Joseph Aspin, it has quite properly enjoyed popular appear with craftsmen, architects and engineers for its bonding properties. The manufacture of cement relies largely on primary minerals for feedstock and depends heavily on carboniferous fuels for production. Naturally occurring minerals have similar properties as a binder and have been used in their own right or as partial replacements for cement. Likewise, secondary products recovered from modern manufacturing or energy production processes also have the potential to replace in part a proportion of cement. Life cycle analysis of cement production supports the proposition that large quantities of fossil fuel and primary minerals are being unnecessarily used in situations where alternative replacements are available and frequently placed to waste. This paper considers the implications of cement production on a sustainable environment. It argues that, contrary to some opinions, partial replacement of cement with secondary wastes which have potential cementitious properties can enhance and improve structures which otherwise would include only Portland cement as the binder. Acceptance of this argument would leave massive quantities of primary minerals untouched and reduce the amount of fossil fuels demanded of cement production on the present scale. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science LtdThe reason for this investigation was the lack of insigh
t into the environmental effects occurring during the entire life cycle of the means of production used in greenhouse horticulture. The utility value of the Life Cycle Assessment method was investigated as a tool to find answers to questions about environmental pollution. The LCA method is an internationally accepted method to compare the environmental pressure of products. For round tomatoes and small-flowered roses the environmental pressures of a soil-grown crop, a substrate crop with free drainage, and a substrate crop with recirculation were compared. The environmental effects of the means of production employed during the phases of raw material extraction, production, consumption at the glasshouse holding, and waste processing, are taken into account. Due to lack of data, crop protection has not been considered in this investigation. Substrate cultivation with recirculation of the drainage water results in less environmental effects per kilogram of tomatoes or per bunch of roses than soil cultivation and free drainage. Reusing the drainage water leads to a lower emission of N and P and consequently to a much lower score for nutrification. The lower consumption of phosphate fertilizers in crops with recirculation results in much lower scores for toxicity to water and soil organisms. These conclusions are also valid for other fruit vegetable and ornamental crops grown on substrate. The energy consumption at the glasshouse holding of natural gas and electricity has a great share in the total environmental pressure. The environmental effects of energy consumption are determined by fuel, and emissions and efficiency of the combustion process. Energy requirement, energy consumption or energy content only give an indication about the greenhouse effect and not about other environmental effects. The Life Cycle Assessment is a suitable tool to visualize the effects of a decision on the environmental effects during the entire life cycle. Hong Kong is a well-defined, highly developed metropolitan region where technical and economic developments have made it possible to support 6.1 million people on approximately 110 km(2) of built-up land resulting in one of the highest population densities of the world. Such a highly organised urban system interacts with the environment through materials, energy and information, similar to a living organism or an ecosystem. It can therefore be analysed in terms of uptake, transformation and storage of materials, and the discharge of waste products. In addition to the metabolic rate of man due to food assimilation, the additional turnover of the urban system due to its material and cultural development can be determined thus establishing a ''metabolic rate'' of the urban system. Hong Kong is an extreme example of an urban system and therefore an ideal case to study the present limits of urban metabolism. Based on available statistical data, the net fluxes, sources and sinks for the most important resources, namely food, fuels (energy), construction materials and other goods are quantitatively analysed. Material balances are established and the ''metabolic rate'' of Hong Kong is determined. The link between resource consumption and modern building construction and operation is shown. The associated waste generation, rapid accumulation of solid waste and resulting consumption of scarce land by landfills are discu
ssed with regard to present and future waste management concepts. Finally, comparisons are made with the metabolic rate of the natural environment. It was found that approximately nine tonnes of materials are used annually per person of which about one third remain as waste. The major part of the materials is incorporated in new buildings and infrastructure where approximately 50 tonnes have already been accumulated per person. Material consumption and waste generation per person are, however, still low in the service industry dominated economy of Hong Kong as compared to industrialised countries such as Japan. Hong Kong probably has one of the highest metabolic rates per unit area of urban systems in the world and therefore faces the most serious challenges in sustaining long-term environmental quality.
 Candidate weed biocontrol agents must be screened to exclude those that could threaten desirable plants. Traditionally, this has been done by rejecting species that develop on economically important plants in laboratory no-choice tests. However, because congeneric plants often support development in these tests, even when they are not utilized in nature, the tests do not meet legislated requirements for rare plant species or the increasing public concern for native plants. Plant suitability for larval development is a poor predictor of host range because insects use a sequence of steps in which the early steps, such as host finding and acceptance for oviposition, tend to be stronger than the later ones, such as suitability for development. This study is a trial of a new approach to screening insects as weed biocontrol agents that uses risk analysis to quantify the suitability of a plant as a host on the basis of inset performance at various stages in its life cycle. The insects used for the study was a NW Chinese biotype of the leaf beetle, Altica carduorum, which in terms of climate adaptation and damage it inflicts on the weedy thistle Cirsium arvense, is a promising biocontrol agent for Canada. However, its ability to develop on all North American Cirsium spp. in laboratory no-choice tests currently excludes its release. We show by risk and factor analyses, with five sequential host-selection parameters, that the suitability of these thistles to A. carduorum is so low that the beetle would not jeopardize the continued existence of rare native thistles, so its release should not be a problem.The paper explores the distinction between climate and climate change. Adaptation to current climate variability has been proposed as an additional way to approach adaptation to long-term climate change. In effect improved adaptation to current climate is a step in preparation for longer term climate change. International programs of research and assessment are separately organized to deal with natural disasters and climate change. There is no scientific concensus so far, that extreme events have changed in frequency on a world-wide basis, although some regional changes have occured. It is extremely unlikely that significant shifts in the means of weather distrbutions will take place without shifts in the tails. In some situations it may make more sense to focus on adaptation to extreme events and the tails of distributions. In other circumstances adaptation to the norms is the logical focus. The relationship between normal climate and climate change is examined in terms of single and complex variables and phenomena. It is proposed that the research communities studying adaptation to extreme events and adaptation to climate change work more closely together, perhaps in a newly organized joint research program.The Russian Federation contains approximately 20% of the world's timber resources and more than half of all boreal forests. These forests play a prominent role in environmental protection and economic development at global, national, and local levels, as well as, provide commodities for indigenous people and habitat for a variety of plant and animal species. The response and feedbacks of Russian boreal forests to projected global climate change are expected to be profound. Large shifts in the distribution (up to 19% area reduction) and product
ivity of boreal forests are implied by scenarios of General Circulation Models (GCMs), Uncertainty regarding the potential distribution and productivity of future boreal forests complicates the development of adaptation strategies for forest establishment, management, harvesting and wood processing. Although a low potential exists for rapid natural adaptation of long lived, complex boreal forests, recent analyses suggest Russian forest management and utilization strategies should be field tested to assess their potential to assist boreal forests in adaptation to a changing global environment. Current understanding of the vulnerability of Russian forest resources to projected climate change is discussed and examples of possible adaptation measures for Russian forests are presented, including: (1) artificial forestation techniques that can be applied with the advent of failed natural regeneration and to facilitate forest migration northward; (2) silvicultural measures that can influence the species mix to maintain productivity under future climates; (3) identifying forests at risk and developing special management adaptation measures for them; (4) alternative processing and uses of wood and non-wood products from future forests; and (5) potential future infrastructure and transport systems that can be employed as boreal forests shift northward into melting permafrost zones. Current infrastructure and technology can be employed to help Russian boreal forests adapt to projected global environmental change, however many current forest management practices may have to be modified. Application of this technical knowledge can help policymakers identify priorities for climate change adaptation.The main chlorophyll a/c light harvesting complex of the diatom Cyclotella cryptica was isolated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. It consisted of two polypeptides of Mrs 18000 and 22000. Both polypeptides and fragments thereof, obtained by formic acid treatment, were blocked at their N-termini. An antiserum raised against the two subunits selectively immunolabeled the thylakoid within the chloroplasts. The subunits were nuclear encoded and could be immunoprecipitated from poly (A)(+) RNA as precursor proteins in the Mr range of 20000 to 24000. The existence of minor chlorophyll protein complexes and their possible function in light climate adaptation processes was investigated in cells adapted to low light and high light conditions. Low light grown cells contained more fucoxanthin and less beta-carotene relative to chlorophyll a than high light adapted cells. The xanthophyll cycle pigments diatoxanthin and diadinoxanthin increased five-fold relative to chlorophyll a under high light conditions. Western-immunoblotting experiments with antisera raised against several chlorophyll a/b and chlorophyll a/c antenna complexes demonstrated that, beside the dominating chlorophyll a/c light harvesting complex, minor antenna complexes might exist, which, in part, seem to react to the light climate applied.Cultivated walnut varieties, generally well adapted to climatic conditions of the different production zones, often lack some important agronomic characteristics. It would therefore be useful to select in natural populations or create through hybridization new cultivars combining characters of improved climate adaptation, early fruiting, high productivity, d
isease tolerance and quality fruit production. This is possible given the very large and so far unexploited variability within the Juglans regia L. species. Research carried out on walnut genetics at UC Davis (USA) and at the Fruit and Vine Research Station in Bordeaux (France) has led to the study of several tree and fruit quantitative characters. Hybridization programs to create walnut varieties are relatively less developed than those of other fruit species. However three main breeding programs carried out in California, France and Hungary have led to the release of twenty new lateral fruit bearing varieties. Two recent programs to create vigorous and cherry leaf roll virus tolerant rootstocks but also CLRV - hypersensitive cultivars, are being developed at Davis and Bordeaux. These programs are using interspecific hybridization's between Black Walnuts and Juglans regia L. followed by back-crosses with the latter species. Some of these rootstock clones multiplied in vitro are currently being assessed. The tools of biotechnology began to be used at Davis (USA) and Orleans (France) to transform the Persian walnut and particularly to introduce resistance to insect pests or cherry leaf roll virus. The forestry sector provides a number of climate change mitigation options. Apart from this ecological benefit, it has significant social and economic relevance. Implementation of forestry options requires large investments and sustained long-term planning. Thus there is a need for a detailed analysis of forestry options to understand their implications on stock and flow of carbon, required investments, value of forest wealth, contribution to GNP and livelihood, demand management, employment and foreign trade. There is a need to evaluate the additional spending on forestry by analysing the environmental (particularly carbon abatement), social and economic benefits. The biomass needs for India are expected to increase by two to three times by 2020. Depending upon the forest types, ownership patterns and land use patterns, feasible forestry options are identified. It is found among many supply options to be feasible to meet the 'demand based needs' with a mix of management options, species choices and organisational set up. A comparative static framework is used to analyze the macro-economic impacts. Forestry accounts for 1.84% of GNP in India. It is characterized by significant forward industrial linkages and least backward linkage. Forestry generates about 36 million person years of employment annually. India imports Rs. 15 billion worth of forest based materials annually. Implementation of the demand based forestry options can lead to a number of ecological, economic and institutional changes. The notable ones are: enhancement of C stock from 9578 to 17 094 Mt and a net annual C-sequestration from 73 to 149 Mt after accounting for all emissions; a trebling of the output of forestry sector from Rs. 49 billion to Rs. 146 billion annually; an increase in GDP contribution of forestry from Rs. 32 billion to Rs. 105 billion over a period of 35 years; an increase in annual employment level by 23 million person years, emergence of forestry as a net contributor of foreign exchange through trading of forestry products; and an increase in economic value of forest capital stock by Rs. 7260 billion with a cost benefit analysis showing forestry as a profitabl
e option. Implementation of forestry options calls for an understanding of current forest policies and barriers which are analyzed and a number of policy options are suggested. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.The impacts of global warming are among the more serious environmental threats far the Pacific Island countries. These nations justifiably argue that developed countries should give immediate priority to the implementation of climate change mitigation policies because of the severe nature of potential greenhouse impacts for the Pacific Islands. Another immediate priority acknowledged by these nations is the need for development of adaptation policies that plan for adjustment or adaptation, where possible, to the foreshadowed impacts of climate change. This article does not focus on adaptation or mitigation policy directly but on an allied opportunity that exists for the Pacific Islands via the auspices of the Climate Convention, because the existing very costly energy systems used in the Pacific island region are fossil-fuel dependent. It is argued here that efforts can be made towards the development of energy systems that are ecologically sustainable because Pacific Island nations are eligible to receive assistance to introduce renewable energy technology and pursue energy conservation via implementation mechanisms of the Climate Convention and, in particular through transfer of technology and via joint implementation. II is contended that assistance in the form of finance, technology, and human resource development from developed countries and international organizations would provide sustainable benefits in improving the local Pacific island environments. It is also emphasized that mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions is not the responsibility of the Pacific Islands as they contribute very little on a per capita global scale and a tiny proportion of total global greenhouse gas emissions.This paper presents a summary of the technologies and practices that could be implemented in Venezuela in order to contribute to both climate change mitigation and national development efforts. The mitigation analysis concentrates an options to reduce CO2 emissions generated from the energy sector and land-use change. From the mitigation options analyzed for the energy sector it was determined that the most effective are those in the transportation sector (switching to larger capacity vehicles, reduced private vehicle share, and switching fuels for public transportation from gasoline to natural gas), both in terms of contribution to emissions reduction and costs. Regarding the options for industry, boilers conversion from liquids to natural gas shows negative cost, but to a considerably lower extent that for the transportation sector. Efficiency improvements of natural gas boilers, which presents close to zero cost, is more effective in reducing emissions than boiler conversion. Increase in hydro power generation is the alternative with the highest total cost but it is very effective in reducing emissions. From the mitigation options analyzed for land-use change, if was established that the forest sector has a considerable potential for reducing CO2 emissions through the adoption of sustainable forest practices, especially by slowing the rate of forest loss and degradation. Maintenance of already existing biomass in natural forests should be the f
irst priority of forest measures to reduce the amount of carbon released to the atmosphere. Forest protection and management of native forest represent the two options with the highest carbon conservation potential and the lowest carbon unit cost. Expansion of the forest cover through the development of intensive forest plantations also presents a high potential to offset carbon emissions in Venezuela. An analysis of the barriers to mitigation options implementation shows that in the energy sector, low energy prices represent the main barrier to any mitigation program. Another important limitation to mitigation strategies implementation is the lack of institutional capacity and legal instruments for developing the mitigation measures. In the forest sector the primary causes of forest clearing in the country are not related to forest activities, so the definition of feasible mitigation options will depend upon a good understanding of other economic sectors and how they account for land-use change. Land tenure, rural poverty, political interests, and weak implementation of land-use planning instruments and environmental laws are considered to be the key limitations to any effort dealing with forest conservation. Land tenure, economic factors, and lack of incentives represent some of the most important barriers to the development of forest plantations and agroforestry systems in the country. (C) 1997 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.The paper addresses the relationship between national economic and social development objectives and climate change mitigation, with national studies for Tanzania and Zimbabwe as the starting point. The main activities driving GHG emissions in these countries are evaluated in order to identify key options and polity areas where there may be synergistic effects between climate change mitigation and national development objectives, The country study for Tanzania has identified forestry and land use activities and the agricultural sectors as some of the main drivers in the future growth of greenhouse gas emissions, Forestry, land use and agriculture are at the same time key economic and social development areas, This means that options leading to improved performance of these activities can reduce future greenhouse gas emissions and imply increasing welfare, A potential for win-win options has similarly been assessed in the country study for Zimbabwe, The options include in particular efficiency improvements in industrial plants and in the energy sector, A new methodological issue in the country study for Zimbabwe is the comparable assessment of greenhouse gas reductions options for multiple emission sources and gases. The paper reports the result of the integrated assessment of CO2 and CH4 reduction options for energy, agriculture, forestry and waste management for Zimbabwe, This leads up to a final discussion on methodological issues involved in cross-sectoral mitigation assessment. (C) 1997 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.The environmental agenda for mitigating climate change through international transfers of technology is linked with a diverse literature, reviewed here within a framework that combines technological, agent/agenda, and market/transaction perspectives. Literature that bears on international technology transfer for climate change mitigation is similar in many ways for Russia and China: opportuni
ties for energy efficiency and renewable energy, economic reform and restructuring, the difficulties enterprises face in responding to market conditions, international assistance policies, international joint ventures, market intermediation, and capacity building for market development. In both countries, capacity building means enhancing market-oriented capabilities in addition to technological capabilities. For Russia, institutional development is critical, such as new commercial legal codes and housing-sector changes beyond privatization. For China, technology policies and modernization programs significantly influence technology transfers.Compensation to developing countries for mitigating global climate change by conserving forest or improving forest management should include the opportunity cost of foregone national development and not just the cost of carbon stored.Estimation of the opportunity cost is discussed and alternative compensation schemes compared.To implement effective carbon sequestration policies policymakers must analyze key characteristics of the country (geographic, institutional, economic, and infrastructural factors) and forestry and land-use practices (the degree of risk associated with investment, the relative difficulty in measuring Sequestration, and the degree of discretion allowed). Without careful analysis of this type, policies may have unintended negative effects.In many climate change mitigation cost-effectiveness studies that do not develop endogenous shadow prices for the value of carbon it is necessary to determine the time value of reductions in carbon dioxide emissions. This paper examines the implications for the time value of carbon of exogenously specifying (2) the path of marginal damages over time, (2) the path of emissions over time, and (3) that the emissions path follow an optimal trajectory over time. The US glass industry produces a wide variety of products for industrial and end use purposes, Towards that end, large amounts of raw materials are extracted and used, energy is degraded and pollutants are generated and released into the environment, The industry has long recognized its influence on material cycles and energy hows through the economy-environment system, It is now in the process of adopting a systems perspective to tackle the problems associated with its material and energy use, To operationalize that systems perspective a dynamic computer model of the container, flat and fiberglass sectors of the industry is developed on the basis of time series data, engineering information and insights from industry experts. The model includes the extraction stage of the main raw materials, transportation of raw materials and discarded products - both back to producers and to landfills - and the various manufacturing processes of the desired products, On the basis of the model, material and energy use and CO2 emissions profiles for the years 1988-2028 are quantified under a variety of scenarios on production rates, technology change and recycling. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology involves a systems view of material and energy flows in industry, where industry is thought of very broadly, and between industry and the environment. Closed loop material systems can lighten environmental burdens posed by society, and improve materials sustainability. Fundamenta
l physical and chemical principles, and some experience, suggest that closing material circulation loops is likely to be both environmentally and economically beneficial. The metal manufacturing system contains complex metal recycling networks involving a variety of actors. Most metal produced as manufacturing 'waste' is recycled, but some wastes containing high concentrations of metals go to landfills for reasons of scale, and the idiosyncrasies of regulation. The greatest loss of manufactured metal appears to be through the disposal of consumer products to landfills.A thriving semiconductor industry has been created in Taiwan over the course of the past two decades by the use of advanced organizational techniques of technology leverage and accelerated technology diffusion. By the mid-1990s, the industry had reached a level of output that placed it behind only the U.S., Japan, and Korea. Almost all of Taiwan's semiconductor industry is located in the Hsinchu Science-Based Industry Park, which was created in emulation of California's Stanford Research Park, but with more direct government involvement. This article explores the extent to which this emergent Silicon Valley in Taiwan shares the ''industrial ecology'' that has powered innovation in California and examines the extent to which the Taiwan industry suffers from weaknesses attributable to its rapid creation through technology leverage.The study of economic systems, and their guidance towards sustainability, can be enhanced by understanding how natural systems use materials and energy at various levels of system organization, how these levels interrelate, and how interrelationships change. Towards this end, the paper introduces natural economics as an approach to understanding the dynamics of hierarchical systems. We define the concepts of natural economics to facilitate the description and assessment of system change, and present dynamic modeling as a method for empirical research and as a tool for management decision making. We illustrate with empirical applications the use of dynamic modeling at various levels of system organization. Empirical illustrations range from dynamic models of simple physical systems of material transport, energy degradation and self-organized criticality to models of complex industrial systems, such as US iron ore mining and steel production. The insights derived from the natural economics approach are used to draw conclusions for the study and management of economy-environment interactions.Clean Technology is an idea which goes beyond Cleaner Production: it concentrates not on a product but on the human benefit which it delivers. Clean Technology is a way of thinking, rather than a set of 'hard technologies'. One productive approach is through dematerialisation, i.e. providing a service rather than selling a product. This approach leads to the developing idea of Industrial Ecology: the systematic use and re-use of materials.The desire of environmentally-conscious consumers and manufacturers to choose more environmentally benign products and processes has led to the development of life cycle assessment (LCA) and design for environment (DfE). In both of these areas, attention has focused initially on the development of inventories of emissions and raw materials consumption for particular products and processes. A number of methods for the comparison and
 evaluation of an inventory's dissimilar pollution loads and resource demands have been proposed, but no satisfactory solution has yet been identified. This paper compares the structure and properties of six different methods. The health hazard scoring (HHS) system uses the analytical hierarchy process (AHP) to weight workplace toxic effects and accident risks. The material input per service-unit (MIPS) aggregates the mass of all the material input required to produce a product or service, The Swiss eco-point (SEP) method scores pollutant loadings based on a source's contribution to an acceptable total pollution load and an environmental scarcity factor. The sustainable process index (SPI) determines the area that would be required to operate a process sustainably, based on renewable resource generation and toxic degradation; an extension of the dilution volume approach, The Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry's life-cycle impact assessment (SETAC LCA) impact assessment method aggregates pollutants with similar impacts to equivalency potentials (measured in kg CO2 equivalent, kg benzene equivalent etc.) and uses decision analysis to assign weights to different adverse impacts. The environmental priority system (EPS) characterizes the environmental damage caused by equivalency potentials and expresses it in monetary terms, derived from environmental economics. Despite their use for the same purposes, the six methods differ in what they try to achieve, in the effects they consider, in the depth of analysis, in the way values influence the final score, and in use of ordinal or cardinal measures of impact. Two problem areas are identified: (1) to varying degrees, each of the methods has the potential to recommend an alternative that actually has a higher impact than other alternatives; (2) for some of the methods the data requirement is so extensive and the tolerance of imperfect data is so low that the application of the method for reasonably sophisticated products or processes would be too complicated. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.During the past 5 years, a number of US Department of Energy (DOE) funded efforts have demonstrated the technical efficacy of converting various forms of radioactive scrap metal (RSM) into useable products. From the development of accelerator shielding blocks, to the construction of low level waste containers, technology has been applied to this fabrication process in a safe and stakeholder supported manner. The potential health and safety risks to both workers and the public have been addressed, The question remains: do the benefits of fabricating products from RSM outweigh the costs? This paper presents a decision methodology for use within DOE to evaluate the costs and benefits of recycling and reusing some RSM, rather than disposing of this RSM in an approved burial site. The methodology is being applied to a decision on whether the DOE Fernald site should recycle its radioactively contaminated metals. Copyright (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.The theory of industrial ecology (IE) and the implementation of IE strategies are both hindered by inadequate definitions of consumption and recycling, In this paper, we introduce a definition of consumption that separates the consumptive process into two independent, quantifiable phenomena: throughput and degradation. We propose that exergy removal be used 
to provide a non-resource specific measure of material degradation, We also introduce an exergy-based definition of material cycling -- cycling of material exergy (CME) -- and describe how it quantifies the differences among three distinct categories of material re-use: upgrading, recirculation, and cascading, Finally, we use a simple, quantitative example involving three methanol-water waste streams to demonstrate exergy-based measures of consumption and material cycling. Copyright (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.The Industrial Revolution transformed society and its interaction with the environment, increasing the use of natural resources and the pace of development of new products and processes. This has left permanent changes in the structure of society and also on the earth through depletion of resources, alteration of natural habitats and pollution from unwanted by-products of the production process and discarded products at the end of their useful life. Recently, concern for the environment has led manufacturing industry to take a proactive role in the development of cleaner manufacturing processes and the design of recyclable products. The goal is sustainable development, where the waste from one process becomes the raw material for another in a large cycle which imitates the natural food chain. This paper outlines the requirements for such sustainable development, and gives an example of the elimination of unwanted by-product through the use of dry cutting.Sustainable development refers to the fulfillment of human needs through simultaneous socioeconomic and technological progress and conservation of the earth's natural systems. Industrial ecology represents one of the major approaches to insure high quality products with resource conservation. This paper discusses the key role of systems engineering and systems management as a provider of the knowledge principles and practices that help realize this integration of economic and environmental efficiency and effectiveness to achieve industrial ecology and sustainable development.The methods of systems analysis - principally, mathematical modelling, simulation, and optimisation - have been widely applied to solving problems in managing the water environment for over three decades. These foundations of the subject remain just as relevant today as hitherto. The problems to which they might be applied, however, or the context in which they might be applied, seem to have changed in ways that could genuinely be described as ''radical''. In this survey stock is taken of these changes in perspective, especially over the past ten years: in the emergence of stakeholder participation, environmental ethics, life-cycle analysis, sustainability, industrial ecology, and design for ecological (as opposed to engineering) resilience. Whether the application of systems analysis will require a new approach or new methods with which to address these new issues, is thus open to question. For there are undoubtedly limits of method now discernible, even in respect of the more conventional problems of applying systems analysis to managing water quality. For example, we shall be obliged to acknowledge that, were we to encode all our currently available hypothetical knowledge into a model, this would not be verifiable in the conventional, rigorous sense. Similarly, in spite of a wealth of apparently ever more p
owerful mathematical formulations of the problem of optimisation, heuristics and intuition must still be called upon to reach even good solutions, reasonably close to where the optimum is thought to lie. Circumventing such methodological difficulties, while yet absorbing the changing currents in outlook on the man-environment relationship, is where candidate tasks for the ''new agenda'' of the next few years might be found. This paper presents some personal observations on a handful of such candidate tasks. (C) 1997 IAWQ. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. The Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft has sponsored the development of a conceptual and flexible, computer aided tool to perform the impact assessment within LCA (life cycle assessment) for technical products and processses. The developed general framework ''Ela 1.0''' (environmental loads analysis) consists of four elements: the selection of appropriate impact categories, the categorization of emissions and wastes leaving the systems as well as of resource and energy consumption, the characterization and an analysis of the results of the impact assessment. The latter compares the product-based emissions with the total of emissions of a region such as Germany, the EU or OECD countries. The framework Ela 1.0 considers the environmental categories: global warming, ozone depletion, resource and energy consumption, wastes, eutrophication (including COD and BOD as measured parameters), acidification, ecotoxicity, ozone formation and human toxicity. The latter categories are handled by listing of precursors for ozone formation, and by listing of emissions scored according to their human hazard potential. The options, possibilities and limitations of the conceptual framework are presented in part A of a series of publications. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.Titanium dioxide pigments have been produced commercially for eight decades. The industry has seen many developments from the humble beginnings with uncoated, impure, anatase pigments to the highly refined pigments of today. For the past four decades there have been two commercial routes far making titanium dioxide pigments - sulphate and chloride. In recent years, significant efforts have been made to produce titanium dioxide by both routes with greater environmental awareness. To compare the overall impact of titanium dioxide manufacturing processes on the environment life-cycle assessments of several process options ore described.Environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA) is one of the instruments for analyzing the effects of activities on the environment. A LCA was carried out to compare two groundwater treatment schemes for removing hardness and colour. One is a conventional treatment, using pellet softening and granular activated carbon (GAC), the other using nanofiltration. From an environmental point of view, there is no significant difference between the two alternatives. This is striking because the general impression is that membrane filtration has more energy. The main impact for both treatment schemes was caused by the on-site use of energy. Also GAC filtration contributes substantially to the total score for the conventinal scenario. A very interesting and efficient way to improve nanofiltration environmentally is the use of low-pressure membranes and "green" energy.An accurate study has been conducted on the Municipal Solid Waste Inciner
ation (MSWI) plants in the Emilia-Romagna Region. The technological characteristics and operational conditions of the different plants have been examined in order to determine mass and energy balance data and emission factors for purposes of comparison. The scope of this work has been the definition of a methodology for the study of the incineration process that would constitute a basis for a Life Cycle Assessment (L.C.A.) to be employed for a more correct management and a more accurate control of plants aimed at reducing their environmental impact.Since the concept of sustainable development has found a broad echo in public and political issues, the need for measures that are highly sensitive to sustainable qualities has arisen. As the dissemination of the sustainability concept unfolded, different indicators claimed to show the right direction for our common future. This paper focuses on flow based measures for eco-sustainability. The life cycle analysis (LCA) combined with a valuation via limit threshold values, the material input per unit service (MIPS), the sustainable process index (SPI), the appropriated carrying capacity (ACC), an abatement cost based approach (PCC) and a concept based on the second law of thermodynamics (entropy) are reviewed and discussed. The application of eco-sustainability measures requires an understanding of the basic ideas (ideology) behind the concepts. Each measure is designed for a special field of application and to achieve a special aim. Therefore, valuations do not necessarily point in the same direction when different indices are used. The application of different measures to numerous case studies shows that results strongly depend on the basic assumptions. None of the described measures singly represents all the important attributes of ecological accounting. However, SPI shows the most important abilities and a big ranking potential: recycling problems and the general problems of accounting for sustainable qualities are solved to a large extent. (C) 1997 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Recent research and development in the area of shape memory alloys (SMA) continues to yield novel and unique results. The strategic and market issues addressed in this paper seek to recognise the potential of shape memory alloy actuators and their future role in product design. The paper considers current market conditions through life cycle analysis and recognises that the diffusion of shape memory alloys into mainstream design usage will only come about through the successful targeting of innovative customers. For this to occur, the differentiating material function of shape memory must be promoted and perceived as adding value to the product function. Consideration is given to the commercialisation of SMA actuators and the role of an R&D/Market interface. The paper states that for SMA actuators to become commercially viable the physical and mechanical properties of commercially available shape memory alloys must be consolidated and future R&D focused on design properties relevant to applications.Environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) is one method to support environmental information needs by multi-attribute product evaluations. LCA describes the environmental effects associated with a product, process or activity over its whole life cycle by calculating the material and energy requirements as well as emissions to air,
 water and soil and by assessing the environmental impacts of those. An LCA study has both objective and subjective steps. So far, LCA has been developed without much consideration of the literature on decision modelling. We want to show that approaches and tools from decision analysis would be beneficial both in the planning of an LCA study and in the interpretation and understanding of the results. We describe the LCA methodology and application, and discuss how the integration of decision analysis and LCA could improve LCA as a tool for decision making. We use an LCA study on beverage packaging systems to illustrate the new approach. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.The objective of this paper is to show that for the optimal design of an energy system, where there is a trade-off between exergy saving during operation and exergy use during construction of the energy system, exergy analysis and life cycle analysis should be combined. The two methods are often used separately, but a limited number of studies has been carried out in which they are combined in some way. An exergetic optimisation of a heat exchanger has been carried out on the basis of the life cycle analysis method in this paper. The optimisation takes into account irreversibilities due to frictional pressure drops and the temperature difference between the hot and cold stream and irreversibilities due to the production of the materials and the construction of the heat exchanger. As an example of this type of heat exchanger, a water to water heat exchanger in a city heating system has been selected. The influence of the configuration of the heating system, including the energy conversion, on the optimisation of the heat exchangers has been shown. The analysis of the heat exchanger in which exergy analysis and life cycle analysis are combined gives the design conditions of the heat exchangers which lead to the lowest life cycle irreversibility. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.The position of the printing ink industry in relation to environmental problems is discussed. The effect of legislation and market pressures on the activities of ink makers and product developments ore explained by reference to the key subjects of renewable resources, recycled materials, emissions, volatile organic compounds, waste from ink manufacture, print waste, biodegradability and life cycle analysis. Ink makers are responding by establishing environmental management systems and developing products which contribute to the environmental objectives of printers.Pursuing clean production and the manufacturing of green products are very beneficial in the alleviation of environmental burdens. In order to reap such benefits, a life-cycle analysis should be applied for all products and processes. Thus, establishing an assessment model for manufacturing processes in terms of environmental impact is necessary for quantitative evaluation of product design. In this paper, an assessment methodology is developed on the basis of the 'material balance' of a process and the relationship amongst different processes. As a result, the amount of solid waste generated, the energy consumed, the waste-water incurred as well as the level of noise are obtained. A case study of the production of a toy train with twelve scenarios is performed to illustrate and examine the assessment model, this study showing that the number of co
mponents, the selection of materials and processes, and recyclability are the essential factors to determine whether the products are environmentally-oriented. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science S.A.The Optimal Fibre Flow Model, a combined optimization and simulation model, calculates the optimal combination of energy recovery and recycling of waste paper for paper and board production. In addition, the environmental impact is estimated by using an environment load unit-index (ELU-index). The ELU-index assigns an environmental load value to emissions and to the use of non-renewable resources such as oil and coal. Given a 'forced' utilization rate for the Scandinavian forest industry, optimization of marginal revenue shows environmental impact to be at a minimum with a utilization rate of about 30% in Scandinavia and 73% (an assumed upper limit) for the rest of Europe. If instead environmental impact is minimized, the utilization rate for Scandinavia is almost the same, while the utilization rate for the rest of Europe is 53% (a lower assumed level). Given a fixed use of virgin fibres for the rest of Western Europe, a comparison of the environmental load at different 'forced' utilization rates for the Scandinavian forest industry shows no significant differences between the economic and environmental optimizations. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.In this study, single-crystalline silicon (c-Si) photovoltaic (PV) cells and residential PV systems using off-grade silicon supplied from semiconductor industries were evaluated from a life cycle point of view. Energy payback time (EPT) of the residential PV system with the c-Si PV cells made of the off-grade silicon was estimated at 15.5 years and indirect CO2 emission per unit electrical output was calculated at 91 g-C/kWh even in the worst case. These figures were more than those of the polycrystalline-Si and the amorphous-Si PV cells to be used in the near future, but the EPT was shorter than its lifetime and the indirect CO2 emissions were less than the recent average CO2 emissions per kWh from the utilities in Japan. The recycling of the c-Si PV cells should be discussed for the reason of the effective use of energy and silicon material.Two 1.5-kb macronuclear chromosomes bearing histone H2B genes from the ciliated protozoan Euplotes crassus were cloned and sequenced. Although the noncoding sequences on these macronuclear chromosomes are very different, the genes encode an identical 113-aa histone H2B protein that has a shortened N-terminus and a highly conserved C-terminus relative to histone H2B proteins in other organisms. Primer extension was used to determine the transcription start points. Northern analysis shows that the abundance of H2B mRNA changes relative to DNA replication periods during the sexual phase of the life cycle. Analysis of 3' RACE products indicates that the H2B genes are coexpressed. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.The applicability of exergy in the methodology of environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA) is discussed. Exergy consumption (or entropy production) may be used as a measure of resource depletion and competition when performing the impact assessment of an LCA. Exergies of several metal ores and other natural resources are calculated using system boundaries compatible with LCA, i.e. the inflow is the resource as found in the environment. These system boundaries may also
 be appropriate for other applications of exergy analysis and may yield results different from those in calculations where only a part of the resource has been considered. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.In some well-known TEWI (total equivalent warming impact) analyses of CFC alternatives, global warmer emissions in production have not been considered. The authors show that TEWI can be affected significantly by these production emissions, which suggests they should be considered in some TEWI analyses. The paper describes a TEWI analysis for one production sequence, that which leads from chloroform to tetrafluoroethylene and thence to HFC-227ea, a fire extinguishing agent. Numerous other commercial products stem from this sequence as well, including refrigerants, polymers and surfactants - these are summarised in the paper. Particular emphasis is placed on describing the production sequence and its global warming parameters to show that these can indeed be estimated from published information. The TEWI profile is presented at the close.A case study of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) is performed concerning tile treatment of household solid wastes in a landfill. The stages considered in this LCA study are: goal and scope definition, inventory analysis and impact assessment. The data of the inventory include the consumption of raw materials and energy through the transport of wastes and the management of landfill, and the corresponding emissions to the environment. Abiotic resource depletion, global warming, acidification, eutrophication and human toxicological impacts have been considered as impact categories for the impact assessment phase of the LCA. A comparison of the environmental impact of the landfilling with and without energy recovery is carried out.This paper describes the incorporation of an independent review process into a life-cycle inventory (LCI) study. The peer review process was the first application of the three-stage review of an LCI. The three stages are: Review of the Goal and Scope Definition, performed when the study plan has been established; Review of the Data-Gathering Methodology, performed after the data have been collected; and Review of the Final Report, performed after the draft report has been written. The purpose, process, and benefits of the review are discussed. Examples of benefits include the incorporation of a process to select ancillary materials for inclusion in the study, and a sensitivity analysis rationale.On the occasion of the JLCA Meeting held on June 19 and 20, the LCA National Project has been planned which will start in April 1998. It is financially supported by MITI (Ministry of International Trade and Industry). The Project will consist of members from industry, university and research institutes. They cooperate for five jears. Main subject areas are: Development of an Inventory Data Base; LCA Case Studies; LCA Application Guidelines; LCA Education and Propagation; Inventory Analysis Methodology; Impact Assessment MethodologyIf the aim of an LCA is to support decisions or to generate and evaluate ideas for future decisions, the allocation procedure should generally be effect-oriented rather than cause-oriented. It is important that the procedure he acceptable to decision makers expected to use the LCA results. It is also an advantage if the procedure is easy to apply. Applicability appears to
 be in conflict with accurate reflection of effect-oriented causalities. To make LCA a more efficient tool for decision support, a range of feasible allocation procedures that reflect the consequences of inflows and outflows of cascade materials is required.It is generally recognised that the valuation in LCA requires political, ideological and/or ethical values (hence the term). These values, however, are seldom discussed, and this paper may be seen as an early attempt. One result is that not only the valuation weighting factors, but also the choice of valuation methodology and the choice of using a valuation weighting method at all, are influenced by fundamental ethical and ideological valuations. Since there is no societal consensus on these fundamental values, and never will be one in an open democratic society, there is no reason to expect consensus either on valuation weighting factors, or on the valuation method or even on the choice of using a valuation weighting method at all. Another result of the discussion on values is that the ethical and ideological valuations are often made implicitly in the choice of method, data, etc., thus making it difficult to discuss the values and the implications of different standpoints. Although this paper focus on the valuation methods within LCA, it is expected that much of the discussion and the conclusions are of relevance for other environmental management tools, e.g. Environmental Impact Assessment.The necessity of the impact assessment phase in life-cycle assessment (LCA) is presently debated. The crux of the debate lies in the poor accordance in some I. CA studies between the predicted environmental impact and the expected occurrence of actual environmental impact. That is in particular the case for impacts of a continental, regional and local character. We consider an impact assessment as being an indispensable phase of LCA, and see options for solving the identified problem. This article takes a closer look into the nature of the assessed impact in LCA in order to provide the basis for enhancement of life-cycle impact assessment. LCA is one of the analytical tools to support environmental policy focused on the control of present environmental problems. Nowadays, environmental problems are caused by concentration levels that result from the emissions of many sources together, rather than from single sources alone. The contribution from a single source is usually small or even marginal in comparison with the total contribution from all sources together. The multiple source character of the related impact categories provides the justification for the linear nature of the assessed impact in LCA. An article in the next issue of this journal will build further on this article, and will discuss the inclusion of temporal and spatial aspects (by a site-dependent approach) in order to enhance the accordance between the predicted environmental impact and the expected occurrence of actual environmental impact.It has recently been acknowledged that the quality of data used in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is one of the most important limiting factors to the application of the methodology. Early approaches dealing with this problem solely based on Data Quality Indicators (DQI) have revealed their limitations, and stochastic models are increasingly proposed as an alternative. Although facing methodologic
al and practical difficulties, for instance the characterization of the distribution of input data, these stochastic models can significantly enhance decision-making in LCA. Uncertainty and data quality however, are two distinct attributes. No matter how sophisticated the stochastic models are, they do not address the issue of the adequacy of the data used with regard to the goal of the study. Actual data on the distribution of SO emissions for US coal fired power plants for instance, would be of low quality for a European study. It is therefore believed that mixed approaches DQI/stochastic models should be developed in the future.This article proposes that there is a recognizable and predictable life cycle to important general enabling technologies such as the railroad, or the telephone, or the ''Net,'' This life cycle, in simple terms, consists of three stages: A stage of experimentation and development; a stage of societal concern with issues of equity and access, with concomitant regulations; and a stage when the emphasis shifts to efficiency and effectiveness, with concomitant emphasis upon competition and deregulation. The point of this life cycle analysis is that it illuminates the phenomenon that while the great previous general enabling technologies of the 19th and 20th centuries have all recently entered their third, deregulatory, stage, creating a Stage III mind-set, the Net is only just entering its second, regulatory, stage. From this analysis, from the tension thereby revealed, some issues and paradoxes can be illuminated and understood, and others revealed for further analysis. The thrust of this article derives from the thesis that the Net is entering a very different phase in its likely life cycle than that of the society around it. An examination of some of the characteristics of this phenomenon will, we hope, be illuminating.Potato sprout inhibitors are generally applied to suppress sprouting during winter storage. This study presents the compared environmental profiles of the two sprout inhibitors available on the Dutch market: A traditional chemical product with isopropyl-3-chlorophenylcarbamate (CIPC) and isopropyl-phenylcarbamate (IPC) and a new agrification product with S-(+)-carvone derived from caraway seed (Carum carvi), examining the common idea that natural products are less harmful to the environment than chemical products. Nine environmental effect scores are evaluated based on emissions and energy use during the entire life cycle (life cycle analysis, LCA). A substantial difference is found in the environmental profiles of the two sprout inhibitors. In seven environmental effects (C)IPC scores better than carvone. Carvone only scores better with regard to human toxicity and ozone depletion. This study has also produced a clear insight into the relevant factors in the life cycles determining the environmental profiles. Regarding carvone, the essential factors are the use of fertilizer in the cultivation of caraway and the relatively high amount of carvone used per ton of potatoes as compared to (C)IPC. It is recommended that environmental LCA's be performed for other agrification products. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.The life cycle analysis of a product enables one to assess its environmental quality. A simple, transparent method taking into account the processes of recycling in the life cycle is developed
 here. It permits dealing with all types of open loops of all sectors. The principles on which the proposed method is grounded are discussed. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.For most life-cycle impact assessments global-type stressors only are selected and organized into the respective impact categories, mainly due to the fact, that the life-cycle inventory results in aggregated information an loadings but not on site-specific concentrations. With respect to the local-type impact category ''ecotoxicity'' two differently in-depth approaches have been developed: The screening approach results in potential ecological loadings. The in-depth approach additionally analyses the character of emission sources and uses a scoring system for the effects assessment. A second local double left right arrow global problem might arise when assessing long-lived products. They often comprise global-type, unspecific and also specific-type, geographically defined stages along their life-cycle. Possibilities and limitations in aggregating the results from both types - also accounting for several LCA applications such as product comparison and identification of improvement options - are presented. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.A small-sized hydrogen gas-turbine originated from a light-weight car turbo-charger is selected as a practical candidate in constructing an alternative hydrogen energy system element and its energetic characteristic is experimentally examined. Additionally, the potential of alternative hydrogen energy systems including hydrogen gas-turbines are investigated from the standpoint of usage, regeneration, transportation, storage and of wasted heat reutilization including environmental load reduction. Some hydrogen energy schemes are also revealed in this paper. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.In 1986 degreasing processes in the German metal-processing industry contributed about 70,000 t to the emission of chlorinated C-1 and C-2 hydrocarbons (trichloroethane, trichloroethene, tetrachloroethene, dichloromethane). Measures aiming at the reduction of toxic emissions and ozone depletion potential (ODP) may possibly lead to a shift of environmental impacts towards higher energy consumption, emission of waste water, and Volatile organic compounds (VOC) with photochemical oxidant creation potential (POCP). The present article concerns itself with a life cycle assessment of the three main degreasing processes in order to compare their integral environmental impacts with one another. This is supplemented by presenting the methodology of the life cycle inventory life cycle inventory analysis (LCI). Generally, the applicability of the established LCI method can be shown quite clearly. However, some difficulties arise, especially at the stage of the goal definition, as the use of the process and the functional unit cannot be pinned down as easily and neatly as for most other products. The definition of the use of the process and the functional unit is not as straightforward as for most products. Among the potential functional units identified are the mass of removed impurities, cleaning time, cleaning work, percentage of purity, throughput of parts, loads, mass or surface and virtual coefficients. The mass of removed impurities turned out to be the most suitable parameter for measuring the technical performance of degreasing processes. The article discusses b
ackground, purpose, scope, system boundaries, target group, process tree and representativeness of the present study.The underlying theme of this paper is that society, globally, is undergoing a fundamental conceptual shift in the way it views the environment and the role of industry within it. There are views in certain quarters that this could result in the virtual elimination of the lead industry's entire product range. Despite these threats, it is argued that the prospects for the lead industry appear to be relatively favourable in a number of respects. The industry's future depends to a significant degree, however, upon its ability to argue its case in a number of key areas. It is contended, therefore, that if appropriate strategies and means are promulgated, the prospects of the industry would appear to be relatively healthy. But, for this to happen with optimal effectiveness, a conceptual change will be necessary within the industry. New strategies and tools will have to be developed, These will require a significantly more integrated, holistically based and 'reflexive' approach than previously. The main elements of such an approach are outlined. With reference to the authors' ongoing research into automotive lead/acid starting lighting ignition (SLI) batteries, the paper shows how the technique of in-depth life cycle assessment (LCA), appropriately adapted to the needs of the industry, will provide a crucial role in this new approach. It also shows how it may be used as an internal design and assessment tool to identify those stages in the battery life cycle that give rise to the greatest environmental burdens, and to assess the effects of changes in the cycle to those burdens. It is argued that the development of this approach requires the serious and urgent attention of the whole of the lead industry. Also to make the LCA tool fully effective, it must be based on a 'live' database that is produced, maintained and continually updated by the industry. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science S.A.Recycling of materials is a key technology for environmental burden reduction or natural resources conservation in materials production. However, the energy consumption and environmental burden associated with recycling are frequently subject to be very severe. Thus, it is very important to evaluate the performance of the recycling process by obtaining quantitative information in which the condition is the best for covering the original purpose of recycling, This work is to propose a nem assessment: moder for metal production and a recycling system. The model consists of three processes, smelting of ore, cascading of metal scrap and upgrading of metal scrap, and the present approach is to assess the total energy consumption of the metal production system, by introducing two equations for describing the relationships between the critical impurity content and the mass of production or scrap recycling. The upgrading process is requested in cases in which the content of the impurity should be reduced due to the quality demand of the corresponding metal market. According to the model, the total energy consumption in the metal production system can be described as a function of recycling rate and performance of the upgrading process;Model calculation nas conducted using the cases of the aluminum and steel production process. The results suggest that the impuri
ty removal efficiency and yield in the upgrading process are essential to reduce the energy consumption in these metal production systems. Especially, such points should be explicitly controlled in the aluminum recycling process. The potential capability of this model may not be overemphasized. It is rather surprisingly effective for the development of beneficial recycling of metals by obtaining several quantitative information required for the process design and its control.Firms are the primary organisers and drivers of resources flows through and emissions from developed economies. Sustainable industrial development is a process in which these flows are modified. This includes both a reduction of materials and energy intensity, increasing cyclicity of materials fluxes, and a reduction of dissipative uses of toxic materials. The role of firms in achieving these changes is discussed in this paper. Life cycle assessment activities in large European firms in six industrial sectors are assessed. Market and regulatory pressures on firms to adopt life cycle approaches differ markedly between industrial sectors and across national markets. Producers of final products are most likely to find opportunities for improvements in the life cycle environmental performance of products while making gains in dynamic competitiveness at the same time. Upstream producers of commodity products have tended to use life cycle approaches defensively against negative environmental claims and in seeking to influence the policy process. Despite widespread adoption of life cycle approaches, changes in product system ecoprofiles are likely to be slow given technological trajectories, infrastructural and resource endowments, and the fragmentation of environmental responsibility across the product chain. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.A life-cycle approach takes a cradle-to-grave perspective of a product's numerous activities from the raw material extraction to final disposal. There have been recent efforts to develop life-cycle assessment (LCA) to assess both environmental and human health issues. The question then arises: what are the capabilities of LCA, especially in relation to risk assessment? To address this question, this paper first describes the LCA mass-based accounting system and then analyzes the use of this approach for environmental and human health assessment. The key LCA limitations in this respect are loss of spatial, temporal, dose-response, and threshold information. These limitations affect LCA's capability to assess several environmental issues, and human health in particular. This leads to the conclusion that LCA impact assessment does not predict or measure actual effects, quantitate risks, or address safety. Instead, LCA uses mass loadings with simplifying assumptions and subjective judgments to add independent effects and exposures into an overall score. As a result, LCA identifies possible human health issues on a systemwide basis from a worst case, hypothetical hazard perspective. Ideally, the identified issues would then be addressed by more detailed assessment methods, such as risk assessment.The environmental impact of the three flooring materials linoleum, vinyl flooring and solid wood flooring during their life cycles was assessed and compared through life cycle assessment (LCA). The scenarios used describe a Swedish situation. Only impa
cts on the natural environment were studied The quantitative results of the inventory analysis were evaluated by using three different assessment methods. According to the results, solid wood flooring proved to be clearly the most environmentally sound flooring. Linoleum was ranked as more environmentally sound than vinyl flooring, although this was less evident in comparison with ranking the solid wood flooring. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) has gained in recent years widespread acceptance as an environmental management tool to assess and valuate the environmental impacts (resource consumption and emissions to nature) of products and processes, covering the whole life cycle from cradle (extraction of raw material) to grave (final disposal). Applied to chemical manufacturing, LCA allows to compare the ecological performance of synthesis processes, guide process developers to weak points and improvement options, and avoid suboptimizations. Ln our Consumer Care Chemicals Division, we apply LCA routinely to sales products as well as manufacturing-process chains, and we developed a specialized LCA computer system ECOSYS for that purpose. Material flow, energy, and waste data for all in-house manufacturing processes are extracted from our company data bases into ECOSYS. For meaningful comparisons of whole life cycles, we must include LCA results for the raw materials bought from other suppliers, and since such data are rarely available, appropriate estimation procedures were developed. The multitude of ecological burdens calculated over the life cycle can be judged and compared by a variety of valuation schemes, e.g. according to the Swiss BUWAL or the modern Eco-indicator 95 method. ECOSYS is not restricted to existing, operational processes, but allows the process developer to-test his hypothetical designs (e.g. derived from a simulation tool) at a very early stage. If process alternatives use different raw materials, a narrow judgement on data for the process step alone may lead to suboptimization, whereas LCA results that consider all preceding syntheses of intermediates allow a more objective comparison. As an example, two synthesis paths for DNS (4,4'-dinitro-2,2'-stilbenedisulfonic acid disodium salt) were compared: The older, established route uses NaOCl in aqueous media as an oxidant, whereas the method more recently introduced in one of our production plants is based on air oxidation in liquid ammonia. The latter produces considerably less waste and is favorable with respect to many ecological parameters, including energy consumption, over the whole life cycle.The ever expanding growth of energy and material fluxes and the associated environmental impact challenge the chemical industry to integrate ecological issues into the design of new chemical substances and products (integrated product design). To achieve this goal, product developers as well as marketing and application specialists need appropriate tools for incorporating ecological issues at every stage of product development. Life-Cycle Design, an approach based on the screening indicators of the streamlined Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) method, is an appropriate concept that can be used even at early development stages. Still today, however, many product designers regard screening indicators, e.g. energy and/or material intensity, summary emission i
ndicators (DOG, TOC, VOC, etc.) as rather subjective judgements, even if they are based on experts' knowledge, panel discussions, etc. Thus, there is a strong need for defining an appropriate set of objective screening indicators based on a natural science approach. These enable an accurate description of environmental effects of a chemical substance in all environmental compartments (air, soil, water, and biota). In this work, we present a conceptual framework for screening, indicators that take into account both process inputs and outputs at every single life-cycle stage. Finally, first results based on several case studies (solvents, dyestuffs,...) are shown.The use of energy for cooking is one of the most important sectors for the energy consumption in India. Results of a life cycle inventory are presented for the use of kerosene and liquefied petroleum gas as cooking fuels, The situation in India was investigated through life cycle inventories for the following stages of the life cycle: Extraction of crude oil and natural gas, processing in refineries and fractionating plants, distribution, product transports (including energy imports) and cooking, Environmental impacts are summarized with final calculated ecological profiles for cooking with the two fuels in different cooking scenarios, These results are analysed regarding the origin of the environmental impacts in the life cycle, A direct comparison shows in the majority of the investigated indicators an ecological advantage in the use of liquefied petroleum gas over kerosene, In addition, a reflection on the economic conditions and the social consequences of both life cycles is made. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.This paper reports the findings of a project to assess the costs and benefits of adopting environment-friendly construction practices for social rented housing in Scotland. Two contrasted dwelling specifications-one for a conventional building (the Control) and one for an environmentally responsible building (Eco-Type 1)-are compared using Life Cycle Analysis and Life Cycle Costing methodologies. An assessment is made of the environmental and economic implications of adopting environmentally conscious construction practices in social rented housing. If is concluded that the provision of environmentally responsible dwellings could bring large-scale reductions in the environmental burden of housing, and economic savings for housing providers and tenants over the life cycle of a dwelling with only a small increase in capital costs.In order to maintain the long term economic viability of nuclear fuel reprocessing BNFL has a long term ongoing R&D programme into nuclear fuel reprocessing technologies. A major theme of this programme is the use of clean technology to reduce the financial cost of reprocessing, while maintaining the highest standards of safety and environmental care. To ensure reductions in environmental impact in reprocessing do not cause an increase in impact elsewhere in the nuclear fuel cycle, a 'Life Cycle Assessment' of the fuel cycle is being developed. This life cycle model should allow definition of: (1) the key areas of the cycle responsible or the majority of the environmental impact; (2) the major differences in environmental burden between reprocessing and alternative technologies and (3) the effects any changes in the upstream and downstream processe
s will have on the entire fuel cycle.The desire of environmentally-conscious consumers and manufacturers to choose more environmentally benign products and processes has led to the development of life cycle assessment (LCA) and design for environment (DfE). In both of these areas, attention has focused initially on the development of inventories of emissions and raw materials consumption for particular products and processes. A number of methods for the comparison and evaluation of an inventory's dissimilar pollution loads and resource demands have been proposed, but no satisfactory solution has yet been identified. This paper compares the structure and properties of six different methods. The health hazard scoring (HHS) system uses the analytical hierarchy process (AHP) to weight workplace toxic effects and accident risks. The material input per service-unit (MIPS) aggregates the mass of all the material input required to produce a product or service, The Swiss eco-point (SEP) method scores pollutant loadings based on a source's contribution to an acceptable total pollution load and an environmental scarcity factor. The sustainable process index (SPI) determines the area that would be required to operate a process sustainably, based on renewable resource generation and toxic degradation; an extension of the dilution volume approach, The Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry's life-cycle impact assessment (SETAC LCA) impact assessment method aggregates pollutants with similar impacts to equivalency potentials (measured in kg CO2 equivalent, kg benzene equivalent etc.) and uses decision analysis to assign weights to different adverse impacts. The environmental priority system (EPS) characterizes the environmental damage caused by equivalency potentials and expresses it in monetary terms, derived from environmental economics. Despite their use for the same purposes, the six methods differ in what they try to achieve, in the effects they consider, in the depth of analysis, in the way values influence the final score, and in use of ordinal or cardinal measures of impact. Two problem areas are identified: (1) to varying degrees, each of the methods has the potential to recommend an alternative that actually has a higher impact than other alternatives; (2) for some of the methods the data requirement is so extensive and the tolerance of imperfect data is so low that the application of the method for reasonably sophisticated products or processes would be too complicated. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.Strict economical considerations govern the application of energy conservation measures in buildings. From an environmental perspective, the analysis should include the pollutant effects of manufacturing materials, transport, building and demolition compared to the emissions saved from reduced heating. A Life-Cycle Assessment approach has been used to evaluate an additional external wall insulation measure for a multifamily building. The study shows that the environmental impact of the additional wall insulation has a small vollutant effect compared to the emissions saved. In addition, the profitability is almost equal for insulation thicknesses of between 100 and 170 mm, where the extra building costs for the thicker insulation balance the expected cost savings on fuel purchased in a 40-year perspective. Environmental factors should th
en favor the thicker insulation. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.Most analysts are still watching for the concrete institutional commitment and policy tools necessary to implement the conceptual shift needed to achieve sustainability. Recent stewardship policies and programs for packaging and packaging waste offer a timely example of the approaches that might be taken to reduce the impact of packaging and packaging waste and put us on a path towards sustainability. Through a comparison of the Canadian National Packaging Protocol and the European Parliament Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive and corresponding literature, approaches to the issue of packaging stewardship are explored, and the essential elements of packaging stewardship policy are established. These include take-back obligations, waste-prevention obligations, and life-cycle analysis reporting obligations. Each of these is discussed, and examples are drawn from Canadian provinces and European Union member states. As well, three policy vehicles easing the implementation of the essential elements are developed, including the transfer of take-back obligations, levy fees, and international standards for life-cycle assessment. Direction is presented regarding the future development of packaging stewardship policy in Canada. In particular, Canada's policies must evolve to create a contractual obligation for firms to meet quantified targets for reducing waste from packaging. A specific obligation for take-back and valorization of packaging waste, as well as an obligation to reduce packaging, would greatly improve Canada's packaging-stewardship policies.During the past 5 years, a number of US Department of Energy (DOE) funded efforts have demonstrated the technical efficacy of converting various forms of radioactive scrap metal (RSM) into useable products. From the development of accelerator shielding blocks, to the construction of low level waste containers, technology has been applied to this fabrication process in a safe and stakeholder supported manner. The potential health and safety risks to both workers and the public have been addressed, The question remains: do the benefits of fabricating products from RSM outweigh the costs? This paper presents a decision methodology for use within DOE to evaluate the costs and benefits of recycling and reusing some RSM, rather than disposing of this RSM in an approved burial site. The methodology is being applied to a decision on whether the DOE Fernald site should recycle its radioactively contaminated metals. Copyright (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.Life-cycle energy balances and emissions of CO, and other gases have been evaluated for the following systems: an LNG combined-cycle(LNGC/C), an integrated coal-gasification combined cycle (IGCC) and a molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC) combined-cycle power-generation systems with CO2 capture and sequestration technologies. The predicted CO2 recovery and sequestration will lower the net energy ratio (which measures the total efficiency of a fossil-fuel system) by 16 to 38% for the LNG C/C system, by 21 to 57% for the IGCC system and by 17 to 56% for the MCFC system. The CO2-emission control potentials for the LNG C/C, IGCC and MCFC are in the range 64-72%, 65-76% and 57-68%, respectively. However, off-site power required for CO2 emission control increases NOx and SOx emissions by as much as a
 factor of 1.3 to 10.For the first time, design of a major new public building in Australia has been subjected to Life-Cycle Assessment-with the aim of minimising overall environmental impact of the development. Resource depletion, emissions, and waste products were quantified from construction, use and demolition of three alternative design options: a 'Base Case', with little environmental innovation; the 'Offer', including existing, available reduced-impact technologies; and an 'Enhanced Environmental Case', including 'cutting-edge' technologies, which are expected to become available within the development programme. Results showed significant reductions in energy and water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and air and water pollution, for both the 'Offer' and 'Enhanced' cases. Greenhouse gas emissions from construction of the Stadium were also shown to be of the same order of magnitude as those from its operation. Copyright (C) 1996 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.The author takes the reader along the pathway of the wood products system, either paper or other wood products; reflecting on the different assessment mechanisms available or in development, to help in decision making. Decision making either for a manager or a policy maker is always done in the face of uncertainty. In a corporation, it involves balancing of shareholders' demand for superior financial returns with society's desire for a clean and sustainable environment. The issues of sustainability and eco-efficiency require new analytical tools for their better interpretation. To achieve these objectives, impact assessment methods, in general, should be examined in the context of a model for the product system and for their applicability at each link of the product system chain. Using a life cycle model for the product system, the author explains each of the three (3) elements of the model, indicating the suitable and available assessment methods for each of them as well as the common endpoints associated with assessments for each element. None of the available assessment methods is applicable across the elements of the model for its entirety. The different endpoints and biological organizational levels make a ''one-size-fits-all'' assessment approach a scientific impossibility. The more recently developed ecological risk assessment is also discussed since it provides a novel approach to the assessment of the ecosystem which is different from that of human and other biological organisms. Another assessment discussed is the Life Cycle Assessment, LCA, methodology. A holistic methodology to assess the resources and environmental aspects of the whole product system is naturally of irresistible appeal. Nevertheless, the questionable nature of its impact assessment phase, LCIA, has created conflict in efforts to apply it to policy-making and as an arbitrer of environmentally preferable product systems or configurations. In concluding, the author while reaffirming the soundness of a product system life cycle approach, is of the opinion that efforts to develop a ''one-size-fits-all'' assessment methodology are bound to fail. The role of a more and better developed LCA methodology in the future would be as a screening tool, via indicators and/or a ranking system for its impact assessment phase. An example of a scoring outline is provided.Since the early 1990s, there has been
 a growing movement toward ecolabeling or environmental certification of products and processes. Indeed, this momentum continues today, and with the ultimate implementation of the International Organization for Standardization's (ISO's) Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) framework, the backdrop is set for a new world marketplace where the relative environmental impacts of a process or product will be required to be known before its widespread use. With much at stake, it is important that the forest products industry continue to recognize the transition from a society where environmental impacts were judged on a retrospective basis to the current paradigm of prospective environmental planning, assessment, and prevention. Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA), the second component of a traditional LCA, has historically relied upon rudimentary hazard screening protocols to assess or predict environmental impacts related to the life cycle of a product or process. While these ''screening-level'' hazard evaluations may have sufficed in the past, current experience and knowledge of quantitative exposure and risk assessment principles and practices suggests that the time has come to incorporate more contemporary tools into the LCIA framework to enhance the value, reliability, and the prospect of securing a favorable ecolabeling designation.International concern about environmental effects of energy generation has increased the interest in commercialising renewable energy technologies. In Sweden, energy from combustion of biofuels has been produced on a commercial scale since 1980. One typical example of the state-of-the-art technology used in forest residue fuelled combined heat and power plants in Sweden is the Nassjo Circulating Fluidised Bed (CFB) process. In this paper, the environmental impacts of CFB processes for combustion of biomass are identified and quantified by using Life Cycle Assessment approach, with the data obtained from the Nassjo plant. The system boundaries are drawn to include the biofuel cycle from collection of forest residues, through the combustion process to the return of ashes to the forest. The most significant environmental impacts of the forest fuel cycle are fossil fuel depletion and greenhouse effect due to the use of fossil fuels in the collection, chipping and transport stages. Other impacts in the life cycle, are less significant and some of them can be counteracted by returning ashes to the forest as a fertiliser.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has become a widely recognised tool for analysing the environmental performance of product, process and service systems and for analysing and assessing the difference in environmental impacts of alternative activities. In this work, the LCA approach has been applied to the Nuclear Fuel Cycle to investigate the environmental effects of nuclear fuel processing and reprocessing. There is an ongoing need to minimise the system-related impacts of our energy services, and the LCA outlined here has been developed to provide a tool to assess process improvement projects within the industry. The environmental profile determined in the study is central to the concept of Clean Technology as it highlights where in the system the greatest environmental burdens arise, and in what cases process changes may increase burdens elsewhere in the cycle. This paper presents some preliminary results of thi
s study, and provides an illustration of the use of LCA in process selection.A new approach to Life Cycle Assessment is presented, based on the concept of sustainability. The challenge of sustainability requires a deeper emphasis on resource use that is often the root cause of many environmental problems, rather than a focus on pollution symptoms. It is proposed that Life Cycle Assessment is adopted as a perpetual, self referential study that seeks to minimise net life cycle throughput, emissions and wastes through a process of continuous improvement.A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a material and energy balance over a system, with some of the inputs and outputs used to assess environmental impact. We summarise a published method for LCA of the materials in domestic waste, that is the aggregated waste paper or glass, etc., which is derived from many different consumer products. We enhance the method to model transport of materials to recycling sites by consumers and collection and delivery to a transfer station. We use the method to show that the environmental impact of recycling glass is considerably less than disposal by landfill, even when the extra impact of consumer and local transport is included. We determine the recovery rate for recycling that minimises the overall energy consumption.The application of clean technology to the production of potable spirits is under investigation. A unique design for the distillation step in the manufacture of potable spirits has been developed in collaboration with Welsh Distillers. The design incorporates a pot still and rectifying column and employs both recycle and pump round options to give the process flexibility for manufacturing a variety of potable spirits from a unit. Preliminary data are presented for the commissioning trials. These trials are used to validate the process design and develop process operation protocols. They will also be used to generate information for a detailed environmental impact assessment which will form part of a broader life cycle analysis of potable spirit manufacture. Trials will be conducted using ethanol-water, standard organic mixtures and synthetic and real washes. A novel sampling system has been designed which facilitates access to all almost all of the plates in the rectifying column; samples obtained are analysed by gas chromatography.Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) is gaining popularity as a tool for decision-making related to industrial systems. Efforts in the development of the LCA methodology have led to agreement on several aspects of procedure for conducting an LCA. This procedure includes documentation of the goal and scope of the assessment, the performance of an inventory of materials and energy associated with the system, and an assessment of the potential impacts associated with these inventory items. More detailed aspects, including specific data and modeling requirements, remain a source of discussion among LCA practitioners. Through consensus on methodology and metrics, the application of LCA will highlight opportunities for the protection of human health and the environment in conjunction with the continuous improvement of industrial systems.Application of the Environmental Life Cycle Assessment methodology to building materials will be discussed. The way in which process analysis is used to reveal the details of the life cycle of specific bu
ilding materials and how they intervene in the total life cycle of the whole building will be illustrated. The importance of clearly and comprehensively defining this process sequence in terms of the intended use and purpose of the Life Cycle Assessment is essential to constructing an analytical framework that is manageable and capable of meeting the objective of the LCA. Identification and careful consideration of the values of all stakeholders is essential to the successful completion and acceptance of an LCA, Methodologies for dealing with the concerns of a diverse group of stakeholders and their differing sets of ''values'' are suggested. These approaches clearly demonstrate that LCA can be successfully applied to such complex systems as buildings and building materials, and that LCA can be a very powerful and practically tool for environmental decision making.Life cycle assessment (LCA) has taken prominence over the last several years as a tool for evaluating system-wide effects of product and process design options. As part of the American Textile Partnership (AMTEX), LCA software applications are being developed to help streamline and reduce the cost of conducting LCAs in the US integrated textile industry. The Textile Resource Integration Model (TRIM) software is a leading example of an environmental decision support tool developed by the AMTEX Partnership. Applications of TRIM build off of experience gained to date with LCAs of textile products, such as the inventory analysis of a woman's 100% polyester blouse conducted in 1993 by the American Fiber Manufacturers' Association. The types of product evaluations envisioned for TRIM include analysis of proposed eco-labeling systems being considered overseas that may pose trade barriers to the import of US textiles. Other uses of TRIM include analysis of the cost of resource losses and opportunities for improving the system-wide cost-effectiveness of the integrated US textile industry.Pursuing clean production and the manufacturing of green products are very beneficial in the alleviation of environmental burdens. In order to reap such benefits, a life-cycle analysis should be applied for all products and processes. Thus, establishing an assessment model for manufacturing processes in terms of environmental impact is necessary for quantitative evaluation of product design. In this paper, an assessment methodology is developed on the basis of the "material balance" of a process and the relationship amongst different processes. As a result, the amount of solid waste generated, the energy consumed, the waste-water incurred as well as the level of noise are obtained. A case study of the production of a toy train with twelve scenarios is performed to illustrate and er;amine the assessment model, this study shows that the number of components, the selection of materials and processes, recyclability are the essential factors to determine whether the products are environmentally-oriented.Corrosion fatigue of 12%Cr LP steam turbine blading is, according to international experience, one of the major causes, if not the major cause, for unavailability of steam turbines. Corrosion fatigue of LP turbine blading has also been a problem in some of the Swedish nuclear power plants, although no severe damage has occurred so far. The corrosion fatigue typically occurs in the transition zone between dry a
nd wet steam, leading to pits and cracks. Experience from COST showed that some precipitation-hardened steels had a better resistance than 12%Cr towards corrosion fatigue in corrosive environments. A life cycle analysis was carried out with the alternatives: (a) replacement of conventional 12% Cr steel with 15-5 PH (b) continuous operation with 12%Cr steel. The results of the LCC-analysis showed that replacement was the best choice. In order to reduce the risk of corrosion fatigue in LP steam turbine blades the Vattenfall Power Group therefore decided to test the precipitation hardened steel, 15-5 PH. The composition of the 15-5 is 15% Cr, 5% Ni and 2% Mo. The test consists of 10 blades installed in May 1997 at unit 2, Forsmark Nuclear Power Plant. The unit is a ABB-designed BWR that commenced operation in 1981. The 15-5 steel was manufactured by Bohler Steel, Austria, and the blades were machined by ABB-STAL, Finspong, Sweden. The blades will be in service at least four years before they are taken out for inspection.The benefits of national and international cooperation on environmental issues are described. Reference is made to the development of European Directives and Regulations and their implementation in member states, in particular the development of an integrated multi media approach to environmental regulation. The ways in which cooperation can help environmental regulators are described from the perspective of the new Environment Agency in the United Kingdom and as a Member State of the European Union. The financial and environmental benefits of investment in cleaner technology, process and life cycle analysis and the use of more environmentally benign materials are identified. Details are given of the formation and operation of the EU Network for the Implementation and Enforcement of Environmental Law - the IMPEL Network - regulatory authorities developing a consistent approach to technical standards, charging, permitting and inspection. Complementary approaches to regulation across the European Union are reviewed, in particular the impact of the EU Eco-management and audit Regulation acid environmental management standards. It is suggested that the lessons learned through these experiences are relevant to all countries.Automotive component designers will be faced with a barrage of legislation in the next century, focusing on reduced environmental impact. Issues, such as ''end-of-life'' product take-back and reduced landfill burden, will mean that new tools are needed to aid the designer to arrive at a fully balanced solution. Techniques such as Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) have been advocated to assess the environmental consequences of a product, studying the whole life cycle from ''cradle to grave''. Using the results of such studies has proved to be problematical, therefore the designer has demanded that a more pragmatic approach should be adopted. The approach chosen uses several tools to support the environmental considerations of component design. LCA supports a Design For Environment (DFE) methodology which allows the LCA results to be used in a meaningful way. Streamlining has been adopted to focus the LCA on the immediate environmental requirements. Therefore, DFE helps to define the level of the study and translates the results of the LCA into a meaningful form which can be used by designers. An example of this is given
 by the improvements that have been made into the assessment of the environmental burden of the product in ''use''. This phase of the life cycle is dominant in most automotive studies and therefore warrants closer investigation.The environmental impact of bioenergy carriers can be determined with the help of life cycle analysis. The present study shows that bioenergy carriers offer some clear ecological advantages over fossil fuels, such as conserving fossil energy resources or reducing the greenhouse effect, but they also have some definite disadvantages-in particular regarding certain airborne pollutants-when the overall life cycle is considered. The paper first discusses the methodological approach for conducting a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) for biofuels; this approach is then used for a case study of Rape Methyl Ester (RME) compared with diesel fuel. The same approach is then applied for some bioenergy routes discussed currently in Germany. For the different bioenergy routes the results of the LCA for Energy, CO2 equivalents, N2O emissions, SO2 equivalents, SO2 emissions and NOx emissions are given and discussed. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.A systematic methodology for incorporating ecological considerations in the optimal design and scheduling of batch/semi-continuous processes is presented in this paper. The methodology embeds principles from Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) within a general multi-objective formulation for the design of multipurpose batch plants, with process economics and environmental impact as distinct design objectives. An expanded boundary is defined around the process of interest, for the consistent evaluation of environmental impact, which is quantified by a set of metrics (for air, water pollution, global warming etc.). Examples from the dairy industry are presented to demonstrate the potential of the methodology to assist in arriving at environmentally friendly and economically favourable batch designs and schedules. Issues regarding the use of alternative cleaning and legislation policies on batch operation and design are also discussed. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.This study is part of the ExternE programme of the European Commission on the external costs of the photovoltaic (PV) fuel cycle. The objective of this paper is the quantitative evaluation of the main environmental impacts of two selected PV systems - the ground-based 1MWp system in Toledo, Spain and the 40 kWp building integrated facade in Newcastle upon Tyne, NE England, using the methodology of life cycle analysis (LCA). Both systems use silicon wafer technology at present, but the Newcastle facade was also studied with the incorporation CdTe modules. The results of the LCA show that atmospheric emissions are the priority impacts with respect to the assessed PV systems. Comparing Si wafer systems, the CO2 emissions were 88 t/GWh for the Toledo PV plant and 143t/GWh for the BIPV facade. If the facade had used electrodeposited CdTe, the CO2 emissions would fall to about 50t/GWh.The Optimal Fibre Flow-model, a combined optimization and simulation model, calculates the optimal combination of energy recovery and recycling of waste paper for paper and board production. In addition, the environmental impact is estimated by using an Environment Load Unit-index (ELU-index). The ELU-index assigns an environmental load value to emissions and to the use of n
on-renewable resources such as oil and coal. If the Scandinavian forest industry uses hydroelectric energy in pulp and paper production, and the utilization rate of waste paper increases, the FLU-index increase. However, a political decision that would force the forest industry to decrease its utilization rate and thus favor a 10% increase in energy recovery would result in a marginal loss for the Scandinavian forest industry of about 5.5 USD/ton. On the other hand, if the electricity is produced from fossil fuel, the ELU-index is initially quite stable, but later increases. a minimum is found at a utilization rate of about 25 per cent. Here, a forced decrease in the utilization rate, along with a 10% increase in energy recovery, would cause a marginal loss for the Scandinavian forest industry with about 6.5 USD/ton.The amount of carbon dioxide available for industrial utilisation may expand to unprecedented levels if the recovery of carbon dioxide from energy plants flue gases will be implemented. The potential of each of the three possible uses (technological, chemical, and biological) is far from being clearly defined. The chemical utilisation option, that has intrinsic thermodynamic and kinetic constraints, may rise controversial positions, depending on the criteria used for the analysis. The estimate of its real potential demands a thorough comparative analysis, using the Life Cycle Assessment methodology, of existing processes/products with the new ones based on CO2, in order to establish whether, or not, the latter avoid carbon dioxide (either directly or indirectly) and their economics. The rejection/consideration assessment methodology will produce reliable results only if an exhaustive number of parameters is used. The analysis cannot be limited to practiced industrial processes, but must be extended to an exhaustive inventory of cases. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.World energy supply up to the year 2100 has been analysed from a life cycle standpoint of the full fuel cycle. Five scenarios are set up and these scenarios are analysed and compared with regard to excess energy requirements, carbon emissions, health risks and investment costs for entire power generation systems. The current trend (fossil fuel-intensive) scenario of these scenarios is attractive from an investment standpoint, but deleterious froman environmental and risk standpoint, The CO2 removal and carbon recycle scenarios must get over the hard barriers of reducing excess energy use and investment costs through future technological innovations. Renewable energy technologies are environmentally appropriate and the renewable-intensive scenario could be introduced with acceptable cost burdens in long-term projections. The nuclear-intensive scenario is attractive from its economic, environmental and risk aspects, but must make efforts to acquire public and political acceptability for further worldwide adoption. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.CO2 emissions from construction of various power plants were calculated by the LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) methodology. The LCI (Life Cycle Inventory) was calculated by ''NIRE-LCA'', LCA software developed at the National Institute for Resources and Environment using a bottom-up approach. CO2 payback times of renewable energy electric power plants (hydroelectric, OTEC and PV) were calculated vs. conventional fossil fuel-fired pow
er plants (coal, oil and LNG). The evaluated payback times were much shorter than the typical operational lifetimes of the respective renewable energy electric power plants. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is not sufficiently tailored to the analysis of strategic environmental problems of material suppliers. Sustainable development calls for a reduction by a factor of 10 to 20 in the material intensity of the economy, a situation which leads to dramatic shifts in markets for raw materials. Furthermore, a material supplier might have major improvement options in the material's numerous downstream uses. LCAs, however, can't cover these two aspects. An adapted form of Substance Flow Analysis (SFA) may be an answer. This approach defines a system in relation to the flow of a specific material through society. All environmental interventions related to the material are inventoried. An emission evaluation indicates the dominant environmental bottlenecks, given the current market volume of each application of the material. This helps to identify improvement options and strategic choices in market portfolios. Scenario analysis on potential measures can further indicate changes of material flows - and thus markers - in the system. The approach is illustrated with a case study on chlorine.The basic idea of LCA is that all environmental burdens connected with a product or service have to be assessed, back to the raw materials and down to waste removal. Therefore, the term ''Life Cycle Assessment'' is more precise than the German ''Okobilanz'' or the French ''ecobilan''. This basic idea is undoubtedly true, and LCA is the only environmental assessment tool which avoids positive ratings for measurements which only consists in the shifting of burdens. In the years from 1990 to 1993, SETAC and SETAC-Europe shaped the development of LCA in a series of important workshops culminating in the ''Code of Practice'' of 1993. The results of these workshops can be illustrated by the famous SETAC-triangle. It shows the basic structure which is now underlying the standardizing activities of ISO: 1. Goal definition and scoping, 2. Inventory analysis, 3. Impact assessment, 4. Improvement assessment. The structure recently defined by ISO differs from the SETAC structure only in the last element which is called ''Interpretation'' in the international standard 14040. According to ISO, ''Improvement Assessment'' is only one of the many activities which may follow LCA but is not part of the true analysis. The components of an LCA are described and interpreted in detail, SETAC vs. ISO. Recent developments and activities initiated by ISO, SPOLD and other organisations complete the review.Software systems to support environmental research and management can often be developed and applied within the context of general purpose computer-aided engineering tools such as spreadsheets and databases. Reliance on general purpose CAE tools reduces development time, is usually less expensive and yields software that is often more capable for a specific task than custom-designed systems with a broader range of functionality. We outline several examples of such applications in this paper, including a spreadsheet for toxic emissions weighting, database and matrix manipulation software for life cycle assessment using economic input-output models, a database syste
m to support environmental reporting, and a Java-enabled browser for visualizing a TRI database.In addition to information on the technical performance of materials, there is an increasing demand for information on the environmental performance. The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology is widely accepted as the instrument for determining this environmental performance. The determination of the environmental performance of building materials is a part of the Dutch national environmental policy on Sustainable Building. This paper deals with the system for environmental product information by LCA, which is in development in the Netherlands for the building industry.Few engineering schools offer students an opportunity to learn about the environmental implications of engineering design until late in the curriculum, if at all. However, such implications are becoming increasingly important and complex. We have successfully implemented a hands-on group project for the first-year course Introduction to Civil and Environmental Engineering which acquaints students with the concepts of green design. The objectives of the project were to reach students the basic ideas of life cycle analysis (LCA) and environmentally conscious decisionmaking and to encourage them to think about how products are designed. The project was divided into two parts. In the first part, each group of students dismantled a new toaster in the original packaging. At appropriate points during disassembly, students were asked questions about how the toaster operated; for example, they were asked to determine how the thermostat worked so that toast is heated for the desired time period. After separating the materials, the students determined the total weight in each of four categories of materials used in manufacturing the toaster. In the second part of the project, the students considered the environmental effects of the current toaster design and proposed different designs to promote easy disassembly and repair, to save energy, and to increase the fraction of materials in the toaster that could be recycled. The groups were also asked to suggest ways to make the packaging material less harmful to the environment. After the completion of the project, toaster parts and packaging were recycled or retained for demonstration purposes. To examine the effectiveness of this project, a detailed survey was given to the students after the completion of the project. Overall, the project allowed students to discover for themselves the challenges of designing a product to be environmentally benign. This project can be modified using other appliances.The life time of each technology consists of phases following each other. The phases can be identified by the typical features driving the improvements in a phase. Theoretical and empirical studies on technology management cover a wide variety of different efforts to model these dynamics. The dynamics include features common to all technologies but also features individual to a certain technology only. This paper gives an overview of mathematical models for describing diffusion dynamics. The aim of the paper is to increase understanding of the life cycle analysis of different technologies. Deeper understanding supports better quality of technology management from the managers point of view and increases the predictability of future changes as wel
l as engineering process in general.A variety of quantitative techniques are available and widely used by risk managers to assess hazard, risk and consequences, including chemical process quantitative risk analysis, human health and ecological risk assessments, product life cycle analysis and operations research. A comprehensive framework that forms linkages between these techniques has not, however, been developed. In this paper, we introduce an integrated quantitative decision approach (IQDA) that encompasses an array of techniques and can vastly improve the usefulness of risk analysis tools in decision-making. Several initial applications of integrated quantitative approaches are presented and discussed with respect to their ability to fit in the IQDA process. The case studies focus on the selection of pollution control equipment for a hazardous waste combustor, identification of remedial alternatives for soils at a chemically contaminated site, and evaluation of chemical emissions from a manufacturing facility. Initial principles for an integrative framework are presented, drawing on the disciplines of decision analysis and operations research, and areas requiring additional work are identified.This paper gives an overview of some criteria for the selection of processes for the recovery of lead and zinc from various raw materials and/or intermediate products. A glossary of possible processes and process variants, is presented and discussed, as well as the way in which these are interlinked. Recent developments in metallurgical process synthesis are also discussed, and the results produced by an eco-techno-economic synthesis procedure for process routes in zinc metallurgy are given briefly; The way in which such a synthesis can complement a life-cycle assessment (LCA) of zinc-producing technologies is also described.CO2 payback times were calculated for renewable energy electric power plants (hydroelectric, OTEC (Ocean Thermal Electric Conversion) and PV (photovoltaic)) by LCA (Life Cycle Assessment), using fossil fuel-fired electric power plants (coal, oil and LNG) as a reference. The CO2 emissions resulting from plant construction and production of plant construction materials were calculated for each case. The amounts of materials for construction of each power plant were taken from previous papers. The resulting LCI (Life Cycle Inventory) was calculated by "NIRE-LCA", LCA software using a bottom -up approach developed at the National Institute for Resources and Environment. The calculated total CO2 emission from the construction of each power plant was divided by annual net generated electricity. Subsequently, CO2 payback times were calculated from estimates of CO2 emissions from construction and operation of renewable energy power plants with fossil fuel-fired power plants used as the reference. CO2 payback times for hydroelectric and OTEC (100 MW) power plants were very short in comparison to PV power plants, which was mainly due to CO2 emissions construction. It was also suggested that CO2 payback times for all renewable energy electric power plants evaluated by the present paper were much shorter than typical operational lifetimes of renewable energy electric power plants.The REMPRODUSE project is a current European initiative towards re-design of electromechanical products for reuse and recycling, sponsored by the European Com
mission. Focus is on closing the copper recycling loop through re-design of copper rich electromechanical products, exemplified by an electric motor, and development of suitable recycling and dismantling technology to go along with the new product design. A life cycle assessment approach secures optimum environmental performance.Life cycle assessment (LCA) for personal computers (PCs) is examined as an approach towards developing environmentally friendly PCs. We conducted a life cycle impact analysis for a desktop PC and a notebook PC, and found several factors that contribute to high environmental loads. The environmental loads of PCs in the use and production stages were the largest among all the life cycle stages. Reducing the power consumption, adopting LCDs, using plastic materials in the housing, and improving the PWB manufacturing are all effective ways to reduce the environmental loads.We compare two tools for Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The software GaBi (Ganzheitliche Bilanzlerung - Integrated Assessment) from Germany is based on a process model approach, as recommended by the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC). These results are contrasted to those from the method developed by Carnegie Mellon University's Green Design Initiative, Economic Input-Output Life Cycle Analysis (EIO-LCA). The EIO-LCA model uses economic input-output matrices, and industry sector level environmental and nonrenewable resource consumption data to assesses the economy-wide environmental impacts of products and processes. The results from the alternative approaches are compared in terms of toxic chemical releases, conventional pollutant emissions, energy use by fuel type, and use of oars. We find that most of the values from the two tools are within the same order of magnitude, despite the fundamental differences in the models. We contrast the two approaches to identify their relative strengths and weaknesses.This paper introduces a novel life cycle approach to designing environmental considerations into products. The approach consists of a qualitative Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) framework for both single and multiple life cycle electromechanical products, The LCA framework will consist of a 'body of knowledge' and a methodology far applying this knowledge to evaluate designs, It will be able to integrate quantitative and qualitative data, consider the views of all the life cycle participants and be implemented as part of a Concurrent Engineering (CE) structure, Details of a pilot study an a sample number of consumers, including users, are given, The study involved undertaking questionnaires and informal interviews to identify, rank and weight consumers key product requirements and environmental considerations, Pt also involved gathering of participants views on general environmental issues such as product tate back, rental/leasing and willingness to pay extra for perceived environmental benefits, A summary of the results and conclusions drawn from this study are given with a discussion of future work planned.(1)This paper reports progress in the development of a novel fabrication technique for printing circuit board designs directly onto suitable substrates. Circuit trades can be formed on organic or synthetic substrates by depositing films of a metal-loaded ink via a standard lithographic printing process. The application of this 
work is in substitutes for conventional (copper-clad resin/laminate) circuit boards where, for low complexity circuits, directly printed substrates offer cost advantages and environmental benefits. The paper is a resume of work and results, including; int formulation, environmental test, circuit modelling and life cycle analysis. Conductive Lithographic Films have now been successfully demonstrated in a telephone handset developed in conjunction with Nortel, microprocessor and microwave stripline applications. Whilst developed primarily as a lour cost, low environmental impact alternative to subtractive PCB manufacture, other potential advantages such as flexibility and environmental robustness are apparent.Comparison of the environmental impacts of chemicals, production processes, products, or companies requires methods to interpret emissions data contained in DFE evaluations, lifecycle inventories, and toxics release inventories. Impact evaluation methods for toxic substances range from simple toxicity scoring to sophisticated risk-based models. This paper explains two such methods. The environmental impact matrix approach is based on a categorical hazard identification. As a qualitative assessment, it is fairly simple to conduct. It has been used by the Source Reduction Research Partnership to evaluate alternatives to chlorinated solvents, The Human Toxicity Potential is based on a multi-pathway environmental exposure model and uses extensive toxicity data. The Dutch government recommended its use in life cycle analysis, along with other equivalency scores, e.g. for global warming, ozone depletion, and smog generation. The steps necessary to calculate an HTP score using the CalTOX model are presented and data needs as well as underlying assumptions are discussed. Differences between the simple scoring mechanism and HTP are illuminated through an example.Traditional life-cycle assessment begins with a product and examines its environmental impacts throughout its life cycle. An alternative approach is to proceed in reverse: to examine the need that the product is designed to fulfill, to determine the minimal environmental impacts that could be engendered by filling that need, and thereby to design the ''perfect green product'' for the purpose. This approach, termed reverse life-cycle assessment (RLCA), is demonstrated by examining the environmental impacts attributable to a generic washing machine of current design, and then by reviewing other ways in which the provisioning of clean clothing may be accomplished. RLCA, as used here, is shown to encourage systems thinking and to identify opportunities for innovation in design and in marketing of environmentally-responsible products in ways that would be unlikely to arise from a traditional LCA.Modeling tools have been developed to design buildings relative to energy use and pollution impacts in a place specific manner. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) tracks production, consumption and reuse of materials with at least one design friendly CAD connectable procedure but without accounting for location throughout the life cycle stages. Benchmarking techniques have been applied mostly in production facilities to optimize internal efficiency with some consideration of environmental impact. ISO 14000 attempts to develop international protocols to minimize environmental impacts of production. Total Quali
ty Building(TM) (TQB) is an emerging procedure to benchmark building relative to the environment using some techniques mentioned above but correlates them to a GIS input/output based modeling framework so that location sensitive issues regarding material and energy flows relative to environment and resource use can be measured. TQB's main objective is to evaluate a building as a performance system in a site sensitive context. Site is defined in a multiple scalar measurement depending on resource and technology.Cost estimating models have been used for many years as a means to reduce the uncertainty in budget estimates and improve the contract preparation and negotiation process. There are several estimating methodologies that have been developed and standardized over time for this purpose. These include comparative analysis, quantity take-off or line item estimating, life cycle analysis, and parametric, or top-down modeling This article will describe the Department of Energy's (DOE) Decontamination and Decommissioning (D&D) Budget Estimating Support Tool, an addition to the parametric Remedial Action Cost Engineering and Requirements (RACER) System. Models for Surface Decontamination and the Segmenting and Dismantlement of Contaminated Building Structures will be discussed along with their integration into the system of models. An example problem win illustrate the rise of the D&D models and demonstrate how parametric toots standardize and improve the budget estimating process.Several approaches have been devised to evaluate the effects of proposed or existing operations on the human organism These effects may be da eloped as part of a Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) as a component of the ISO 14000 protocols. One approach to LCA is Life-Cycle Stresser-Effects Analysis, or LCSEA. The goals of an LCSEA include reduced adverse environmental effects: improved human health: improved resource allocation: improved inventory control and efficiency of use: and reduced waste(1). Life-Cycle Analysis may be applied to examine cumulative risk over the lifetime of a product and for this examination it is necessary to begin with an understanding of the technologies that are available. To generate impact and risk values, it is necessary to quantify the waste inventory. Current waste inventories will be estimated for ferrous and total wastes at Department of Energy (DOE) facilities, with the discussion focusing on ferrous wastes. The analysis is based on available literature and published reports, and supports the concept of recycling these materials. There exist considerable uncertainties in past inventory estimates. Recent studies described bq Loiselle(2) and Bierman(3) suggest that the current inventory of scrap steel at Department of Energy (DOE) facilities at Oak Ridge lies bem een 29,000 and 120,000 tons. The contribution to the scrap steel inventory from future decontamination, decommissioning and dismantling activities at the Oak Ridge K-25 plant alone may be an additional 335,000 tons. The current total United States DOE and DOE/DOD (Department of Defense) total scrap steel inventory has been recently estimated at 292,000 tons(3) 389,300 tons based on Bierman's values(3), extrapolated; and 396,000 tons(2), with an additional component of perhaps 505,000 tons from future decontamination and decommissioning activities(2). The DOE and DOE/DOD total (met
allic and non-metallic) waste inventory through year 2070 possibly available for recycling may be as high as 36,162,000 tons, based on recent DOE publications(4,5). Development of new technologies is being spurred by the need to recycle significant quantities of contaminated waste stored at federal facilities.LCA(Life cycle assessment) is a systematic process used to calculate and evaluate the environmental impacts of products. Because boiler components are now exposed a more severe erosion/corrosion environment by improving efficiency of thermal power plant, it is expected that the use of thermal spray coatings will increase. The LCA method was attempted to apply to various thermal spray coatings for PFBC (Pressurized Fluidized Bed-Combustion) and evaluate the eco-friendly coatings. The result was gained that all the alumina coatings have good characteristics. In fact the Al2O3-40%ZrO2 coating by APS has the lowest environmental impact and the best erosion resistance, it may be considered the most effective coating.Viewpoints gathered at the final session of the "Use of Recycled Wood and Paper in Building Applications" conference were consolidated and grouped into four main categories: infrastructural needs; environmental issues; processing, products, and markets; and construction industry issues. The discussion of the infrastructure includes ideas and suggestions related to the supply and cost of recovered material, information sources, definitions, standards, education, public perception, legislation, and funding for research and implementation. Environmental issues include contaminant distribution and life cycle assessment. The discussion of processing, products, and markets covers handling of material, medium density fiberboard, wood-plastic composites, agricultural fibers, exterior structural products, and new building systems. Finally, the section on the construction industry addresses salvage and deconstruction.The methods of systems analysis - principally, mathematical modelling, simulation, and optimisation - have been widely applied to solving problems in managing the water environment for over three decades. These foundations of the subject remain just as relevant today as hitherto. The problems to which they might be applied, however, or the context in which they might be applied, seem to have changed in ways that could genuinely be described as ''radical''. In this survey stock is taken of these changes in perspective, especially over the past ten years: in the emergence of stakeholder participation, environmental ethics, life-cycle analysis, sustainability, industrial ecology, and design for ecological (as opposed to engineering) resilience. Whether the application of systems analysis will require a new approach or new methods with which to address these new issues, is thus open to question. For there are undoubtedly limits of method now discernible, even in respect of the more conventional problems of applying systems analysis to managing water quality. For example, we shall be obliged to acknowledge that, were we to encode all our currently available hypothetical knowledge into a model, this would not be verifiable in the conventional, rigorous sense. Similarly, in spite of a wealth of apparently ever more powerful mathematical formulations of the problem of optimisation, heuristics and intuition must still be called upon
 to reach even good solutions, reasonably close to where the optimum is thought to lie. Circumventing such methodological difficulties, while yet absorbing the changing currents in outlook on the man-environment relationship, is where candidate tasks for the ''new agenda'' of the next few years might be found. This paper presents some personal observations on a handful of such candidate tasks. (C) 1997 IAWQ. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.Whether sustainability can, or should, be defined in a practical operational sense, it is clear that the emergence of such a notion has prompted what seems to be a profound re-thinking of whether our society, economic system, and technology are as we would wish them to be. Sustainable development, clean technology, life-cycle analysis, pollution prevention, and so on, are expressions of a willingness to leave no stone unturned, as it were, in the search for what would be appropriate. With respect to the design and operation of a city's wastewater infrastructure, in particular, this search is characterised by a seeming explosion in the possible combinations of appropriate technologies, gross uncertainty about how novel technologies - only now emerging - might perform in the very long term, and a continuing absence of specific criteria of sustainability for determining the grounds on which any candidate technology might be preferred over another. The paper introduces a simple computational procedure for generating and screening candidate combinations of unit-process technologies for an urban wastewater infrastructure. This is based on the use of Monte Carlo simulation, with the identification of those specific technologies (and combinations thereof) that appear to have the greatest probability of being selected for use under different, possibly evolving, criteria of sustainability. Application of the procedure is illustrated with respect to just a part of this infrastructure, i.e., the wastewater treatment plant. (C) 1997 IAWQ. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.In this study the insustainability of the treatment of municipal wastewater is evaluated with the LCA-methodology. Life-Cycle Assessments (LCA) analyze and assess the environmental profile over the entire life cycle of a product or process. The LCA-methodology proved to be a proper instrument to evaluate the wastewater treatment plant on the sustainability. However, environmental impacts which are caused by sludge handling should still be classified. Besides that, the LCA should be carried out on regional level instead of on national level. In a situation of high nutrient removal the contribution of the treatment of municipal wastewater to the total insustainability level in the Netherlands is relatively low. When the sustainability of the WWTP has to be improved, the most attention has to be paid to the minimization of discharge from pollutions with the effluent and minimization of the sludge production. Because the contribution of energy consumption is relatively low, less attention can be paid to the minimization of the energy demand. The building of a WWTP and the use of chemicals are not determining the insustainability of the WWTP. (C) 1997 IAWQ. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.Life-Cycle Assessment is a tool for evaluating the environmental burdens of goods and services from the "cradle to the grave". Such an approach is applicable to th
e energy sector where different technologies often have contrasting environmental impacts and may have significant impacts outside generation, for example associated with the extraction and processing of raw material, the production of components or decommissioning. In this paper the life-cycle impacts of electricity generated from a wind farm in Spain are compared to those associated with the conventional fuel mix. The net environmental benefits of wind energy are calculated taking into account all materials and resources used and the emissions produced during all activities, including transport, across the complete lifecycle. Wind energy, as expected has significant benefits over conventional generation. Coastal cities are critical areas for global environmental change, but they have not been a focus of study in coastal zone management or urban planning, This paper lays the conceptual groundwork for such a focus, based on an 'ecomanagement' or ecosystem approach, The unique 'bi-polar' aspect of the juxtaposition of a complex natural system with a complex built system is stressed and explored, Among the benefits of an ecosystem approach is that it provides a common, scientifically defensible, ground for diverse visions and jurisdictions in a designated area, The history of recent ecosystemic and metabolic studies of cities is reviewed, as well as the implications of the intensification of use of the natural ecosystem for coastal city purposes, A series of brief case studies of developed and developing country cities is presented: Dakar, Hanoi, Alexandria, Toronto, and Venice, Finally, some of the implications of studying coastal cities in the context of rapid global change are outlined, as a preliminary agenda for further research, (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd, All rights reserved.
 Neither the costs nor the benefits of adaptation to climate change have been systematically studied so far. This paper discusses the extent to which the vast body of literature on climate change impacts can provide insights into the scope and likely cost of adaptation. The ways in which the impacts literature deals with adaptation can be grouped into four categories: no adaptation, arbitrary adaptation observed adaptation (analogues), and modeled adaptation (optimization), All four cases are characterized by the simple assumptions made about the mechanisms of adaptation. No or only scant attention is paid to the process of adapting to a new climate. Adaptation analysis has to acknowledge that people will be neither dumb nor brilliant at adapting. They are likely to see the need for change, but may be constrained in their ability to adapt or in their comprehension of the permanence and direction of change, (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd, All rights reserved.Three hundred broiler chicks (Hubbard) of both sexes were assigned to five feeding treatments: TO received a complete diet (control), TI was a choice feeding system with simultaneous access to an energy-rich feed (ground corn) and a protein concentrate (43.7% CP), and T2, T3, and T4 were introduced to choice feeding after 1, 3, and 5 wk, respectively, of consuming the complete diet. At 1-d-old, TI chicks showed a marked preference for corn, with only 21.4% of their intake being the protein concentrate diet. Intake of the concentrate progressively increased to 40 to 45% after 3 d of adaptation, resulting in diets with 22.5 to 24.3% CP. When broilers fed the complete diet for 1 to 5 wk (T2, T3, T4) were changed to choice feeding, on the Ist d, their feed choice intake was similar to that of T1 chicks at the same age. Visual observation and tactile assessment of the feed particles during the initial period allowed the chicks to quickly evaluate the new feeds and to adapt their feeding behavior. Although total feed intake to 6 wk of age was not significantly affected by the feeding treatments, broilers on choice feeding selected diets with a lower percentage of CP and had lower live body weights at 6 wk than those fed the complete diet (TO).Climate-induced changes in the forest sector could have far-reaching consequences for rural communities and the economy in developing countries. Despite the many uncertainties involved in predicting impacts, it makes social and economic sense to identify adaptation options now. The case study of Himachal Pradesh shows that, for adaptation measures to be realistic, the needs of different stakeholders with an interest in forest products and services must be addressed. It is recommended that existing programmes to resolve conflicts between different stakeholders be strengthened. Diversification of occupation structures has also been identified as an important strategy to reduce the vulnerability of forest-dependent communities. Additional investment may be required in new areas of research, such as tree genetics programmes, in order to facilitate the selection of species that are resistant to climate change.Fruit breeding pursues the creation of new cultivars by improving desired characteristics and eliminating shortcomings. Thus, the objectives of any breeding program must take into account the problems to be solved. In almond, the traits of a
n ideal variety must fulfill requirements for fruit quality and growth characteristics of the tree. These latter traits include those related to climate (adaptation to the growing region), phytopathology (resistance to pests and diseases), vegetation (growth and branching facilitating orchard management), reproduction (ensuring a high and constant yield) and physiology (which ensures reproductive ability). With greater certainty in anthropogenic influence on observed changes in climate there is increasing pressure for agreements to control emissions of greenhouse gases (Houghton et al., 1996). While it is difficult to assess the appropriate level of mitigation, it has been argued that flexibility in meeting emission targets offers significant economic savings. Such flexibility can be exercised in terms of timing of mitigation (i.e. delay) or geographic location of the intervention (e.g. permit trading and Joint-Implementation). Much of this insight is based on standard models of technical change in energy supply and demand. However, standard model formulations rarely consider: (i) a link between the pattern of technical change and policy interventions; (ii) economies of learning; and (iii) technical progress in discovery and recovery of oil and gas. While there is evidence to support the importance of these factors in historic patterns of technical progress, the data necessary to calibrate internally consistent economic models of these phenomena have not been available. In this paper simple representations of endogenous and induced technical change have been used to explore the sensitivity of mitigation cost estimates to how technical change is represented in energy economics models. The scenarios involve control of CO2 emissions to limit its concentration to no more than 550 ppm(v), starting in the year 2000, and delayed to 2025. This sensitivity analysis has revealed four robust insights: (i) If endogenous technical change is assumed, expected business as usual emissions are higher than otherwise estimated - nevertheless, while 25% greater CO2 control is required for meeting the CO2 concentration target, the cost of mitigation is 40% lower; (ii) If technical progress in oil and gas discovery and recovery is assumed, energy use and CO2 emissions increase by 75% and 65%, respectively above the standard estimates; (iii) If the economies of learning exhibited in various manufacturing sectors are repeated in development of non-fossil technologies and abatement of CO2 emissions, the costs of abatement can be 50% lower than those assessed using standard models; and (iv) In this sequential learning framework, delay in abatement towards a 550 ppm(v) CO2 concentration target leads to expected net economic loss in seven of nine model structures studied. Only when the model structure permits new oil and gas discoveries while keeping other features of standard models does delay offer economic gain with greater than 60% confidence. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Current debates on climate mitigation emphasize the role of the inertia of the economic system. Our aim in this paper is to study in more depth how sectorally differentiated inertia impacts on optimal CO2-emission abatement policies. Using the STARTS model, we show that optimal abatement levels and costs differ sensibly among sectors. Differential inertia is the critical d
eterminant of this trade-off, especially in the case of a 20-year delay in the action, or in an underestimation of the growth of the transportation sector. In particular, the burden of any additional abatement effort falls on the most flexible sector, i.e. the industry. Debates on mitigation emphasize the role of inertia of the economic system. This paper aims at studying more in depth how sectorally differentiated inertia should influence optimal CO2 emission abatement policies. Using a two-sector version of STARTS, we show that under perfect expectations, optimal abatement profiles and associated costs differ sensibly between a flexible and a rigid sector (transportation). In a second step, we scrutinize the role of the uncertainty by testing the case of a 20-year delay of action and an underestimated growth of the transportation sector. We do this for three concentration ceilings and we point out the magnitude of the burden which falls on the flexible sector. We derive some policy implications for the ranking of public policies and for incentive instruments to be set up at international level. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.In order to elucidate interactions between climate change and biogeochemical processes and to provide a tool for comprehensive analysis of sensitivity, uncertainty, and proposed climate change mitigation policies, we have developed a zonally averaged two-dimensional model including coupled biogeochemical and climate submodels, as a part of an integrated global system model. When driven with calculated or estimated trace gas emissions from both anthropogenic and natural sources, it is designed to simulate centennial-scale evolution of many radiatively and chemically important tracers in the atmosphere. Predicted concentrations of chemical species in the chemistry submodel are used interactively to calculate radiative forcing in the climate submodel, which, in turn, provides winds, temperatures, and other variables to the chemistry submodel. Model predictions of the surface trends of several key species are close to observations over the past 10-20 years. Predicted vertical distributions of climate-relevant species, as well as seasonal variations, are also in good agreement with observations. Runs of the model imply that if the current increasing trends of anthropogenic emissions of climate-relevant gases are continued over the next century, the chemical composition of the atmosphere would be quite different in the year 2100 than that currently observed. The differences involve not only higher concentrations of major long-lived trace gases such as CO2, N2O, and CH4 but also about 20% lower concentrations of the major tropospheric oxidizer (OH free radical), and almost double the current concentrations of the short-lived air pollutants CO and NOx.The continued accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is expected to severely impact the earth's natural resources and agriculture. Greenhouse gas emissions from the developing world are rising faster than those from other countries, and many studies have noted that it would not be possible to stabilize climate change without reducing the growth of these emissions. Can this be achieved without affecting economic growth and social fabric in these countries? Mitigation studies indicate that if energy efficiency and forestry options are implemented 
judiciously, emissions can be reduced at a negative cost without affecting economic growth. The studies also suggest that this would increase significantly the worldwide demand for natural gas and renewable technologies. Country studies show that the aggregate mitigation potential in the forestry sector is higher, and the costs per tonne of carbon are lower, than reported earlier by global studies. Barriers to the implementation of energy and forestry options need to be explicitly taken into consideration because these may change the priority of options and the choice of policy measures.Brazil is fortunate in having large areas of land that are not currently forested but that are suitable for silvicultural plantations. Changes in the area and regional distribution of the country's silvicultural plantations imply a wide variety of environmental and social impacts. Projections of future development of plantation silviculture are needed for analyzing these impacts, as well as to serve as a reference scenario for evaluating the potential effects of climatic change on Brazil's plantations, and for the related task of evaluating the implications of proposals to combat global warming by increasing the area of silvicultural plantations in Brazil beyond the extent to which they would otherwise expand. Such a reference scenario provides the control, or "business as usual" standard, against which one can compare the situation as affected by climatic change and/or by additional silvicultural or other activities carried out to help mitigate climatic change. Assuming constancy of climate, technology, per-capita consumption of wood products, and Brazil's share of international trade, the area of plantations in 2050 would be 3.2 times larger than the area in 1991. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Extensive work is underway on potential climate change mitigation strategies. It remains difficult, however, to compare the costs of CO2 mitigation measures being undertaken around the world. Because greenhouse gas (GHG) offsets represent a relatively new phenomenon, generally accepted rules of cost or mitigation accounting do not exist; most offset projects make it up as they go along. Nonetheless, comparing the costs of GHG offset approaches is crucial to those considering alternative mitigation strategies. This paper reviews discrepancies in how CO2 mitigation costs are currently estimated and introduces a model for generating reliable mitigation cost curves. The Greenhouse Gas Offset Cost Assessment and Decision making Model (GGOCAD(C)) allows utilities, other emitters, or governmental agencies to review carbon offset options, including in the AIJ/JI sectors; learn about mitigation projects being implemented; consistently evaluate proposed and existing projects; and incorporate their own concerns, priorities, and objectives into offset evaluation. The model helps users to more efficiently identify GHG offset opportunities that will most effectively advance their climate change mitigation aims.Land-based climate change mitigation options face questioning from several directions and may not survive to be a part of the developing climate change mitigation regime. A number of important interest groups have raised concerns about the ability of forestry and other biotic approaches to achieve real greenhouse gas mitigation benefits. Yet many natio
nal, provincial, and company-level climate change plans involve the use of forestry and other land-use mitigation options. Indeed, there is an abundance of analysis from sources including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on the potential for biotic mitigation options to advance climate change mitigation objectives. Very little analysis, however, directly responds to concerns being raised by critics of biotic mitigation measures. Supporters of biotic offsets need to make a concerted and immediate effort to address technical as well as political arguments and concerns being raised by opponents of land-based mitigation approaches. This project investigates the concepts of industrial ecology and eco-industrial parks and applies those concepts to the redesign of an existing industrial park in Choctaw, OK. The opportunity for developing an eco-industrial park on this site comes from the availability of waste water for non-potable water needs, and the abundance of waste tires as raw materials for products to drive a new set of industrial partnerships. These industrial partnerships include the City of Choctaw Waste Water Treatment Plant, a tire shredding company, a tire pyrolysis company, a hydroponics industry, a hard rubber tire manufacturer, a screen printer, a plastics manufacturer, a toner manufacturer, and a toner cartridge manufacturer. The nature of this relationship and the design of the eco-industrial park is contained within this report. The result of this investigation is a new, common sense, approach to industrial land use that combines economic growth and environmental protection. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology is assumed as a conceptual tool emulating models derived from natural systems and it is aimed at developing fundamentally new approaches to the industrial system environmentally-oriented reorganization. It implies two essential elements of definition: it is a concept involving a systemic approach to changes in goods manufacture, use and disposal and it is a concept related to the organization of new interactions among the industrial system structural components. Starting from these assumptions, this paper opens three possible paths to the theoretical implications of such a perspective: (1) The need to conceive sustainable industrial growth as a process of co-adaptation between natural and industrial systems; (2) The need for a better definition of the 'environment' of a manufacturing system; (3) The possibility of designing innovative interactions for manufacturers, consumers and decomposers as structural components of the industrial ecosystem.The methods of industrial ecology have been applied to the selection of a high-Z material for indirect-drive targets in the HYLIFE-II reactor. We quantify physical, chemical, and radiological impacts, rate the social-welfare impacts, and identify trends in the economic dimensions of the material selection. Early accident dose, the waste disposal rating, life-cycle volume, gamma dose rate, and resource availability are all considered. Four high-Z materials are considered: Ta, W, Hg, and Pb. A new activation module has been developed to accurately account for the complex activation scenarios of target materials. We explore a range of recycling scenarios and the results of these activation calculations are translated into the indic
es mentioned above. The recycling scenario can be modified to reduce accident hazards, disposal hazards, maintenance hazards, or fiscal expenditures, but different hazards or costs suggest different recycling scenarios are preferable. The IE methodology and examples of results are presented and areas for further study are identified.Background In the future, competitive industries will need to design for environment, health and safety as well as for productivity. Although the new areas of pollution prevention and clean production have evolved to address the design of production processes with concerns for the ambient environment, current pollution prevention models do not include explicit concerns for health, safety, and the work environment. The field of occupational health and safety has much to contribute to improve current pollution prevention approaches and solutions. Methods The application of work environment disciplines will need to be expanded fi om the conventional focus on "end-of-pipe" assessment and solutions, which take the production processes and resulting hazards as a given, to include a new focus on materials selection and process redesign. To make this shift, a new framework called "sustainable production" is proposed. The basic unit of sustainable production is the production process. The framework integrates a focus on the ambient and work environment along with a focus on productivity and the economic viability of the business enterprise in setting production process design parameters. Results By shifting the focus of occupational and environmental health and safety from exposure control to process design, sustainable production reduces the likelihood that concerns for health, safety, and the environment will be seen as antagonistic to productivity and economic development. To move a firm toward sustainable production, occupational health and safety professionals will need to participate in interdisciplinary workplace teams that design and build new production processes and that continuously evaluate and redesign existing processes. Conclusions This new strategy requires an expansion of the role of the occupational health and safety professional to include evaluation and redesign of processes that produce goods and services as well as the conventional evaluation of chemical, physical, and biological agents, work practices, and ergonomics. This expansion of occupational and environmental health and safety requires new research to develop the scientific and public policy basis of sustainable production. (C) 1998 Wiley-Liss, Inc.This work is intended to contribute to the foundations for formalizing industrial ecology analyses of energy systems (systems for energy generation, transfer, or transformation) and to examine how the tools for performing these analyses can also enhance the field of industrial ecology in other applications. We discuss requirements for studying materials and energy cycling in industrial processes, with particular emphasis on energy generating systems, through explicit inclusion of entropy concepts in industrial ecology considerations. This perspective is intended to contribute to the theoretical basis for industrial ecology, to the development of tools for comparing the ecological (human and environmental health, and institutional) impacts of energy generating and other industrial processes, and 
to possible changes in engineering curricula with emphasis on design. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology (IE) is an emerging framework for characterizing relationships between businesses and analyzing their economic and environmental performance. By applying the principles of IE, members of eco-industrial parks (EIPs) pursue improvements in their economic efficiency while reducing the environmental burden of their production activities. This article discusses the potential of EIPs for improving economic and environmental performance and presents a methodology for developing and analyzing potential EIPs. The methodology is applied to a prototype EIP based on companies in Brownsville, Texas, and Matamoros, Mexico, The potential for improved economic performance can be an important draw for public and private developers frying to populate an EIP and this study shows that these benefits are attainable. We conclude with a discussion of the conditions necessary for successful EIPs in the United States.In this paper, we argue that environmental business performance indicators are substantially and qualitatively different to sustainable development indicators and thus require different approaches in terms of public consultation, scope of measurement, time scale and range of issues covered. It does so by first reviewing some developments within environmental performance indicators for industry and, after providing a definition of sustainable development, it argues for the necessity of including SDIs in business in a way that reflects the fundamentally different nature of SDIs in comparison to environmental performance indicators for industry. It exemplifies the differences by focusing on one often-missing aspect - Biological Diversity.Although 'Sustainable Development' is invoked in current political and environmental debates, the concept has eluded precise definition. In general terms, 'sustainability' means working within three sets of constraints: techno-economic, environmental and social. Traditionally, engineering has been concerned with techno-economic issues. Explicit recognition of environmental and social issues has led to the way of thinking called Clean Technology, and to the use of more holistic analytical tools including Life Cycle Assessment. Howeover, it is argued here that a paradigm shift is needed in the way engineering skills and knowledge are used, as inputs to deliberative processes which go beyond techno-economic decisions. The need for this new paradigm is illustrated by the waste management sector, which is increasingly seen as needing the skills of the 'New Model' chemical engineer.The US copper, lead, zinc, aluminum and iron and steel sectors exhibit increasing competition for their products from new materials such as plastics and ceramics. The likely result of that competition and increased recycling is a decline in domestic production from virgin materials. Parallel to these developments are continued strong efforts by industry to improve material handling and energy efficiencies, and to switch towards cleaner fuels. What are implications of these trends for material and energy use and CO2 emissions by the copper, lead, zinc, aluminum and iron and steel sectors? To answer this question, this paper presents a systems view of industrial activity in which the major raw materials and energ
y flows are traced through the five US metals sectors. Dynamic interrelationships among resource extraction, materials processing, fuel use and technological change are specified on the basis of time series data and engineering information. Projections of material, energy and CO2 emissions profiles are presented for the years 1990-2020, These projections include energy requirements by the energy sectors to supply various fuels and electricity for the five metals sectors. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The scope and scale of industrialization apparently have progressed to a stage where the base of the engineering sciences must now be expanded beyond the realm of distinct industrial and agricultural technologies to the realm of industrial ecosystems, in which discrete technologies are characterized as design and innovation parameters in organized networks of economic production and consumption processes. The presumed objective of industrial ecosystem design and innovation is to efficiently and economically deploy natural and industrial resources with minimal risks to the integrity of significant natural processes of the biosphere. Mathematical tools for such an expansion derive from the premise that, for given intervals of time, industrial and natural ecosystems and their interactions can be characterized by hierarchies of bounded networks of biotic and abiotic resource acquisition, conversion, and transfer processes. The hierarchies illustrated in this paper range from modular networks of production technologies in manufacturing and refining to food chains and sequential products to biological communities and industrial production networks to product life cycles and beyond. The ecology of each resource conversion process within a bounded network of processes is characterized mathematically in terms of the principles of material and energy balance, with energy as one of many biotic and abiotic enabling factors of resource acquisition, conversion, and transfer that are ecologically quantified and monetarily priced. Design equations are developed that map the ecologies of bounded networks of ecological processes into the ecology of the network at its boundary, thereby providing operational procedures for mathematically defining hierarchial network structures. At the lowest level of ecological organization, all constituent network processes are observable first-order natural processes or engineered technologies. The economics of a given industrial enterprise are evaluated as an explicit mathematical function of its network of production technologies, its ecological organization, and its ecological boundary prices; thereby providing procedures for the coordinated design, management, and accounting of its technological, ecological. and economic dimensions at hierarchial levels of organization from factory floors and farms to corporate levels and beyond. Sustainable industrialization is shown to be achievable through on-line, risk-control pricing mechanisms.Confusion surrounds the terminology associated with product end-of-life processes such as recycling, remanufacture, reuse and refurbishing. In order that product end-of-life strategies can be communicated effectively, an established terminology needs to be developed and adopted. The purpose of this paper is to define these terms, drawing on current literature and case studi
es in order to establish a taxonomy. Remanufacturing addresses the aims of industrial ecology in a more effective way than material recycling and is a thriving business in many industrial sectors. Before remanufacturing is fully accepted by the public at large, and not just by informed buyers within industry, standards to govern the processes and procedures should be established in order to ensure that the items are as-good-as-new (AGAN). In order to proceed, it is important to define remanufacturing so that it can be differentiated from merely refurbishment and other synonymously used terminology.Industrial Ecology (IE) is an interdisciplinary field of study that uses system approaches to focus upon the relationship of industrialism to organisms and their environment. IE promotes changes from a wasteful economy, to a closed looped system of production and consumption. Through this mechanism, industrial, governmental and consumer waste is reused, recycled, and remanufactured to the limits of knowledge and technology. Nanotechnology is technology operating at the atomic level. An application of this technology is the manufacture of inert and bio-objects. Similar to nature, bio-engineered "software" instructions will be the blueprint for the assembly and operation of products at, or from the atomic level. The development of this technology presents the possibility of the application to dis-assemble existing and future waste (inert and bio) to the molecular level and then re-assemble it into new resources and products. This cyclical approach, if designed into the system, would allow the raw materials used in objects to never reach end-of-life.Industrial Ecology (IE) is an interdisciplinary field of study that uses system approaches to focus upon the relationship of industrialism to organisms and their environment. IE promotes changes from a wasteful economy, to a closed looped system of production and consumption. Through this mechanism, industrial, governmental and consumer waste is reused, recycled, and remanufactured to the limits of knowledge and technology. Nanotechnology is technology operating at the atomic level. An application of this technology is the manufacture of inert and bio-objects. Similar to nature, bio-engineered "software" instructions will be the blueprint for the assembly and operation of products at, or from the atomic level. The development of this technology presents the possibility of the application to dis-assemble existing and future waste (inert and bio) to the molecular level and then re-assemble it into new resources and products. This cyclical approach, if designed into the system, would allow the raw materials used in objects to never reach end-of-life.As a result of organizational changes and rapid expansion of the telecommunications sector, AT&T faces challenges regarding the environmentally efficient end-of-Life management of vintage/surplus telecommunications equipment in its Central Offices. This paper will describe AT&T's Case Study and Business Case regarding the end-of-life management of such telecommunications equipment. This project is considered a key pilot for AT&T's internal Industrial Ecology Strategy.Movement of business focus from a regional to a global basis is redefining how companies organize their activities. During the past 25 years, the chemical industry has been gradually moving from a 
focus on "end-of-pipe" treatment to source reduction, recycling, and reuse. Pollution Prevention, once viewed primarily as an environmental issue, is now becoming a critical business opportunity. This change is not coming easily because it requires institutional transformation in organizations where such change is difficult. The emphasis on Pollution Prevention is now broadening to include tools such as: life-cycle analysis, full-cost accounting, sustainable development, and eco-efficiency. As we look twenty years into the future, process design and optimization will incorporate more elements of the environment into the objective function that defines success. Modeling and simulation will play a key role in making these changes occur more rapidly. This paper reviews the drivers, change, and tools that can be used to accelerate this change. The environmental aspects of the electricity supply system in Korea has been analyzed from the point of view of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). As an initial step, thermal power generation, which has the largest portion in national electricity system and is considered to release significant amounts of emissions, is defined as the system. All the inputs and outputs associated with the defined system has been identified and calculated based on the delivery of 1kWh electricity generated by thermal power to consumers. The national electricity supply system is a circle-network type connecting the whole country to a single super grid with all generators feeding into it and all consumers drawing from it. Thus, the national averaged data have been collected and used to describe the present system. The Life Cycle Inventory Analysis (LCI) results show that anthracite releases the largest amount of airborne emissions and LNG releases the smallest amount of emissions among the fuels used in thermal power generation. The most dominant airborne emission is CO(2) which is one of the main causes for global warming effect. Waterborne emissions like COD, SS, oil etc; and solid wastes such as waste synthetic resins and combustion ashes are also quantified. The results of the analysis carried out here will be a part of the basic database for indispensible electricity in LCA studies for almost all industries.Recycling is considered to play an essential role in developing a sustainable economy. A restrictive environmental legislation has forced German economy into extensive recycling activities. Meanwhile, German society and German industry have more than six years of practical experience with recycling of postconsumer plastic waste from household packaging due to this Legislative situation. II is time to critically evaluate the situation. This paper summarizes the development in Germany and tries to show ecological impacts based on a life-cycle analysis and correlates these data with economical consequences.Recently published life-cycle assessments (LCAs) on recycling and incineration with energy recovery of paper packaging materials are used as examples in order to discuss the usefulness of LCAs. The type of information that can typically be produced by an LCA is described. The reproducibility of LCAs is evaluated and reasons for possible discrepancies between LCAs are discussed. An attempt is also made to make conclusions on advantages to the environment of recycling versus incineration of paper packaging materials, and disc
uss lessons learned that can be applied to other materials. In all seven studies, including 12 cases and 27 scenarios, total energy use is consistently lower when paper packaging materials are recycled rather than incinerated. Other, differing results can be explained by the assumptions made concerning the energy source used instead of the energy from incineration when paper is recycled instead of incinerated (called 'the alternative energy source'). If fossil fuels are the alternative energy source, incinerated paper replaces fossil fuels, and emissions of CO, can be decreased. If, on the other hand solid waste (which in other cases would have been landfilled), or biofuels are the alternative energy source, fossil fuels will not be replaced. In these cases, increased recycling will in general lead to decreased emissions of greenhouse gases. It is suggested that the alternative energy source for the near future is usually solid waste. In the longer term this depends on political decisions on waste management in general. Studies which address the issue of transportation consistently conclude that as long as it is reasonably efficient, transportation will not have any effect on the conclusions. It is noted that not all relevant environmental impacts are considered in the studies reviewed. This is one reason why none of the discussed LCAs can alone be used to determine the environmental preference of the alternatives studied. Another reason is that the question is too narrow. The ranking order by environmental impact of the alternatives may depend on other policy decisions. Some of the LCAs can however be used to identify key issues, i.e. critical aspects which need further study or should be considered when choosing between recycling and incineration. Equally important, some of the LCAs can be used to identify aspects which are of limited importance for the decision. It is suggested that this is typical for current LCAs and presumably also for future ones. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The environmental impacts of nitrogen emissions from soil resulting from the use of organic fertilizers, such as manure, are large compared with the corresponding impacts of mineral fertilizers. However, soil emissions are rarely included in systems analysis of waste management strategies. This study examines whether the inclusion of soil emissions can affect the environmental ranking of systems for managing solid biodegradable waste. Waste management scenarios based on incineration, anaerobic digestion and composting, respectively, were compared. The scenarios were analysed using the organic waste research (ORWARE) simulation model. A simplified model for calculating nitrogen availability and emissions was also constructed. Life-cycle analysis methodology was used for choosing system boundaries and evaluating the results. Global warming, acidification and eutrophication were the impact categories considered. The results indicate the vital importance of considering nitrogen emissions from soil when comparing biological waste management systems with other waste management methods, especially with regard to eutrophication effects. Soil emissions are also important when comparing the environmental impacts of anaerobic digestion and composting systems. However, the variation in nitrogen emissions from soil is large and depends on the spreadin
g technique used, climate, drainage and soil texture (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is the complete study of everything concerning a material, from the raw materials extraction to all the following impacts, including the waste produced directly and indirectly. The procedure is based upon four stages divided into a cyclic procedure of evaluation improvement and refinement. The first stages frames the problem and studies the quality of the data to be utilised; the second provides the numerical values deriving from the mass and energy balances. The integrated management of municipal solid waste (MSW) requires a thorough assessment of material flows, environmental impact and costs associated with the entire: life-cycle of the products under review.The utilization of renewable energy is one main subject for discussion an Sustainable Development, because of its possibility to replace primary energy. How many primary energy could be really saved by wind energy converters, can be said with the Cumulative Energy Demand and the Energy Yield Ratio, which are part of a Life Cycle Assessment.Using interaction trap technology, we identified a putative extracytoplasmic-function (ECF) sigma factor (RpoE1) in Myxococcus xanthus, a bacterium which has a complex life cycle that includes fruiting body formation. The first domain of the response regulator protein FrzZ, a component of the Frz signal transduction system, was used as bait. Although the RpoE1 protein displayed no interactions with control proteins presented as bait, a weak interaction with a second M. xanthus response regulator (AsgA) was observed. While the specificity of the FrzZ-RpoE1 interaction therefore remains speculative, cloning and sequencing of the region surrounding rpoE1 localized it to a position downstream of the frzZ gene. A potential promoter site for binding of an ECF sigma factor was identified upstream of rpoE1, suggesting the gene may be autoregulated. However, primer extension studies suggested that transcription of rpoE1 occurs under both vegetative and developmental conditions from a sigma(70)-like promoter. not blot analysis of RNA preparations confirmed the low-level, constitutive expression of rpoE1 during both stages of the life cycle. Analysis of an insertion mutant also indicated a role for RpoE1 under both vegetative and developmental conditions, since swarming was reduced on nutrient-rich agar and developmental aggregation was effected under starvation conditions, especially at high cell densities. An insertion mutation introduced into the gene directly downstream of rpoE1 (orf5) did not result in either swarming or developmental aggregation defects, even though the gene is transcribed as part of the same operon. Therefore, we propose that this new ECF sigma factor could play a role in the transcriptional regulation of genes involved in motility behavior during both stages of the complex M. xanthus life cycle.In order to develop a life cycle assessment method, which can be widely applied to electrical appliances and office automation equipment we have investigated resource depletion, energy consumption, and environmental pollution in the manufacturing process of circuit boards, and we have identified the common units, such as 228 Mcal/kg of energy consumption and 15.979 kg-C/kg of carbon dioxide emission. Using th
ese common units, we have calculated the categorized impact for the environment (resource depletion, global warming, acid rain, and atmospheric pollution) using a laptop personal computer, whose processing speed (PS) is improved by 5 times, weight is decreased by 47%, and energy-consumption is cut by 44%, compared with previous type. We have also shown that the life cycle environmental impact (EI) per personal computer decreases by 38% in resource depletion, life cycle EI per processing speed decreases 87% in all categories, and environmental efficiency (=PS/EI) in all categories improves by a factor of approximately eight (factor value: 8).Increased recognition of the importance of sustainable development is posing new challenges for industry. A systems approach gives a framework for reconciling the needs of sustainable development with all the other demands on industry. The computer industry has been chosen to illustrate the application of a systems approach to green design in industry on account of both its increasing economic importance and the increasing role of computers in society. A plumber of examples are given to illustrate the advantages of a systems approach to green design, and the main principles and some of the details of a systems approach to green design in the computer industry are discussed. (C) 1998 John Wiley & Softs, Ltd.Life cycle accessment (LCA) has been widely used to evaluate the environmental load associated with products, materials and services from cradle to grave. Most of the effort in LCA so far has been devoted to construct the inventory database because collecting the related data is tremendously time-consuming process. On the other hand, problems of LCA as a evaluation tool also has to be considered. Typical LCI methods, such as I/O analysis and process analysis, assume that the relationships between the input and output for each process are linear. In fact, most of the relationship between the input and output for processes do not satisfy the linearity and so the influence of the non-linearity on the result has to be investigated to evaluate more accurate environmental load. This paper formulates the nonlinear analysis in LCP, to extend the normal linearity-based LCA. In the formulation, a method to express the nonlinearity in the general format is newly proposed. Next, a general system for the evaluation of environmental load is developed using this formulation. It is shown that object-oriented approach is effective for the development. Using the developed system, influence of non-linearity on environmental load and the derived problems will be investigated. Finally, an effective method to modify nonlinear data, which is supposed to become important in the future, will be proposed.The design paradigm called virtual prototyping (VP) is important because of the need to manufacture products in a short period of time and in a cost effective manner. By replacing the building of physical prototypes for testing various design issues such as usability, life-cycle analysis, functionality and so on with so called "virtual models" on a computer and analyzing them, virtual prototyping is achieved. One of the design issues that has become increasingly important is the "design-for-disassembly (DFD)" paradigm. A well designed product that is easy to disassemble has the obvious advantages when it needs to be taken apa
rt for service or end-of-life recycling. Therefore a design tool that can tie the DFD issues into a virtual prototyping system is of considerable interest. This paper attempts to address this particular issue in the virtual prototyping area: DFD as applied to VP. This paper presents an overview of a detailed DFD method. An algorithm that can be readily tied into a computer aided design system, therefore also useful for virtual prototyping, is discussed. Some implementation issues and an evaluation of the effectiveness of the DFD method currently employed are explained. Even though this research is still in its early stages, the paper presents a general framework of DFD methodology and its potential to be used as a virtual prototyping tool.Four decorative points were evaluated by a life cycle analysis. The points were hosed an different binders: conventional alkyd, high solids alkyd, alkyd emulsion and acrylic dispersion. In respect of the evolution of eutrophiating agents, the point based on the acrylic dispersion performed better than those based on the alkyds. In all other respects the high solids and the alkyd emulsion based paints had a lesser effect on the environment than those hosed on the conventional alkyd and the acrylic dispersion. This holds good far the exhaustion of non-renewable row materials and energy sources, Required Air Quality (RAQ) values, emissions of acidifying compounds, potentially harmful to human beings and photothemically active.Ordered by the Deutsches Kupfer-lnstitut the Institute of Non-ferrous Process Metallurgy of the RWTH-Aachen treated the inventory of a life cycle assessment copper materials in the rime between march 1992 and December 1993, Since finishing and publishing this study in summer 1995 it became clear that by giving only primary energy demands of processes no concrete energetic information about the technology itself is possible because they are decisively influenced by the kind of energy supply, Interpretation of processes therefore is only possible by knowing the corresponding final energy which means the reel energy demand of a production plant divided up into the different energy carriers, The present inventory for copper production and manufacturing represents a scientific basis in the field of eco-balancing. The comparision of primary and final energy demand firstly shows the complexity of such an inventory but also the risk of misinterpretation. So only experts with precise knowledge of a production plant can make conclusions.The ISO 14000 norm provides a framework in which a continuous improvement of the environmental performance of a process may be realised. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) forms an integral part of ISO 14000 however, its inventory analysis presently often simplifies process routes for metals processing to simple averaging black-boxes that represent whole processes. This approach hardly makes it possible to capture the detail of complex interconnected materials processing systems as found in metals processing. As a consequence the use of LCA in its present form as a tool to invoke improvement for metal processing and recycling systems may be questionable. As an alternative to the poor inventory analysis of LCA for the above mentioned systems, this paper discusses the architecture of a simulation model that permits the detailed simulation of interconnected material cycles
 in view of realising the ISO 14000 norm and other imposed environmental legislation. This means that interconnected routes such as for Cu, Sn, Zn, Pb, Al, Mg and Mn are simulated simultaneously. This would put the very useful LCA methodology for these applications on a more sound basis, rendering the subsequent improvement analysis better for these systems. The proposed architecture is characterised by four levels, each of the levels providing information to different interested parties, i.e. from decision-makers, politicians to plant managers and metallurgists. Very much like thermodynamic simulators, which communicate with appropriate thermodynamic data in a suitable standard database, a possible environmental database is defined, which can efficiently communicate with the different levels defined by the simulator. This architecture clarifies the complexity of these systems. Various illustrative case studies and corresponding numerical results provide an overview of the proposed architecture as well as the scope of this approach. Without providing a statement regarding the overall environmental soundness of the interconnected Al, Cu, Sn, Zn, Mn, Mg and Pb production routes, the results give an indication what detail results can be produced for these process routes spanning countries and continents. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.When making a choice between alternatives, in whatever field, it is essential to have regard for the complete set of costs and benefits, in the widest possible sense, that will result in each case. The preferred option should be that which confers the maximum benefit, although relevant objectives will often conflict and its identification may be far from straightforward. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an environmental accounting tool for measuring the inputs and outputs of an option, whether a product, a process or an activity. This paper Explains the principles and methodologies involved in LCA, its application to the nuclear sector, and to electricity generating options and sustainable development.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a powerful technique used to calculate total input and output flows of materials and energy from and to the environment during every step of a product life. A measure of a product Environmental Quality (EQ) can then be derived and help in the selection and in the design of more environmentally friendly design alternatives. EQ is a multicriteria measurement. In the construction field, LCA flows cannot be known with precision without loss of realism. Hence intervals have been introduced to model them. Thus, different designs are characterized by interval multicriteria measures. Manipulation bf such environmental performances falls for a MCDA method which (1) does not allow for trade-offs between criteria, (2) preserves as much information as possible and (3) is simple enough to be understood by non-specialist users, PROMETHEE was identified as a suitable method according to the previous criteria, but it is not able to handle interval performances so far. We discuss the necessary changes to devise an interval version, called "PROMETHEE I". (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The purpose of this paper is to describe how one pollution prevention tool, life-cycle assessment, can be used to identify and manage environmental issues associated wit
h product systems. Specifically, this paper will describe what lifecycle assessment is, determine the key players in its development and application, and present ideas on how life-cycle assessment can be used today. LCA provides a systematic means to broaden the perspective of a company's decisionmaking process to incorporate the consideration of energy and material use, transportation, post-customer use, and disposal, and the environmental releases associated with the product system. LCA provides a framework to achieve a better understanding of the trade-offs associated with specific change in a product, package, or process. This understanding lays the foundation for subsequent risk assessments and risk management efforts by decision-makers.This paper suggests an approach to life-cycle impact assessment which is based on the comparison of predicted exploitation or pollution levels with critical levels; the latter representing the carrying capacity of the commodity-supplying or pollutant-receiving environment. The incremental pressure induced by the product system is weighted with the total pressure on the reference environment. Geographic dimensions of the reference environment are chosen in accordance with the spatial sphere of influence of commodity extractions or pollutant emissions. The feasibility of the approach is shortly surveyed for a number of input-related and output-related impacts and the approach is compared with conventional Life-cycle impact assessment. It is concluded that life-cycle risk assessment may contribute to a better harmonization of methods for impact assessment. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.A new data model has been developed to handle information relevant to site-specific life cycle assessments (LCA). The model is orientated towards GIS-representations of three generalised subsystems; the technical, the environmental and the social subsystems. The technical and environmental systems are mainly linked through flows of energy and matter, which are the causes of environmental impacts, which subsequently is perceived, evaluated and acted upon by the social subsystem. For all three systems important differences, attributable to geographical locations can be determined. With the new data model a possibility to enhance LCA and reach more relevant results emerge due to a higher site specificity. The high level data model is expressed as relations between different entities using the entity relationship (ER) modelling language. An existing LCA-database, SPINE, which is already used by several companies for decision support in product development, can be utilised since the structure of the database supports geographical information. So far, applications with GIS-data are limited, but examples of area specific LCA impact characterisation factors exist. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.In current life-cycle impact assessment, little attention is paid to the spatial aspects of emissions: the place where an emission is released and the area and or target system on which the emission has its impact. This lack of differentiation affects the relevance of the assessed impact. This paper presents factors for Europe that relate the region of emission to the acidifying impact on its deposition area. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Fluorinated materials developed to replac
e materials banned from manufacture under the Montreal Protocol are themselves contributors to environment damage. In particular, their contribution go global warming is under scrutiny from customers, regulators and pressure groups. This paper provides a comparison of the global warming and other impacts associated with two possible replacements for Halon 1301 (a banned fire extinguishant), namely an 'in-kind' compound CF3CHFCF3 (HFC-227ea) and a 'not-in-kind' blend of nitrogen, argon and carbon dioxide (IG-541). The impacts associated with the manufacture and deployment of the HFC-227ea are found to be substantially greater than those of the inert gas mixture designed for the same fire-extinguishing duty. The impacts during manufacture reveal an important issue for the widely used measure of global warming impact-the so-called Total Equivalent Warming Impact (TEWI). The present work clearly reveals that where impacts associated with manufacture are significant, the scope of the TEWI analysis needs to cover the manufacturing process if it is to be meaningful.The environmental and energy implications of a midsized automobile were assessed by performing a life-cycle inventory analysis that emphasized manufacture and use phases. An Economic Input-Output Life-Cycle Analysis model was used that produces a large array of indicators of the effects of a product or service on the economy and the environment. The analysis corroborates two previous studies that used the conventional life-cycle analysis model developed by the Society for Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) (1,2) and EPA (3). The use phase ia more important than the manufacture and disposal phases in terms of energy use and environmental discharges. Automobile service is comparable to the fuel cycle in terms of discharges of toxic substances. In contrast to a Volkswagen study, tailpipe exhaust and evaporative emissions of hydrocarbons (HC)/volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate matter are greater than emissions upstream in the fuel cycle. This difference apparently arises from using on-road tailpipe emissions data, rather than emissions data from laboratory tests. The Economic Input-Output model is found useful for quantifying the range of implications of decisions concerning manufacture and use.This paper describes the overall reduction of the environmental impact by the use of selective catalytic reduction (SCR) determined by a investigation of the life cycle assessment of SCR systems for power plants. The overall reduction of the environmental impact by the use of SCR was determined under consideration of the total product life cycle from manufacture of the starting materials through catalyst production and use in the powerplant to processing for recycling. Following clear specification of the overall system limits and definition of the goals for the analysis to be performed, the inventory analyses were determined for the individual process steps and in summary for the overall process cycle/sequence under consideration of basic SCR application variants in the power plant. The inventory analysis was used to generate the impact assessment and improvement assessment. This work was performed using the concept given by Braunschweig, A., and Muller-Wenk, R. [5]. Other tools of environmental management of products and processes used were the m
ethods of process cycle/sequence analysis, process input-output analysis and cumulative energy consumption or expenditure [14].In January 1997, the German Research Association (DFG) established a special research programme for an integrated analysis of metallic resource flows. The programme is a joint interdisciplinary effort of the Technical University of Aachen and of the Research Centre Julich. Apart from many other activities, a series of conferences is organised within this programme. In October 1997, a first conference was held on "The Economics of Resource Flows: The Case of Aluminium". In December 1997, a second conference took place on "Life Cycle Assessment of Aluminium: Methods and Applications". In April 1998 the third workshop was held entitled "Methodological Aspects of a Resource-oriented Analysis of Material Flows". The next conference is planned for December 1998 on "Environmental related Aspects of Aluminium Production". Finally, a conference on " Methods for an Integrated Evaluation of Material Flows" is under consideration for 1999.Indicators which reflect environmental, economic, health and safety issues, have been categorized as microecometrics and macroecometrics. The former, generally flow based measures, have been developed for local, firm-wide or product based assessments. Microecometrics include materials intensity, energy consumption and emissions data, often from life cycle perspectives. They are, generally, intensive and are scaled with respect to unit of production, GDP or per capita, though other normalization factors have been proposed. In contrast macroecometrics tend to be extensive and represent global conditions such as temperatures and environmental concentrations. Ecometrics are subjective and reflect the dominant value of the individual, family unit, stakeholder group or firm. As such overaggregating or reducing the number of ecometrics for given applications, such as the rating of investments or access to credit, presents potential conflicts. Furthermore, while eco-indicators used for internal corporate reporting should not, necessarily, be validated, those microecometrics which involve external reporting, or multiple stakeholders, are arbitrary if not derived from, or based on, comprehensive life cycle approaches. This paper summarizes ECOMETRICS'98, a workshop held in Lausanne, Switzerland in January 19-20, 1998. It discusses ecometric needs of various users including consumers, designers, private sector decision makers as well as politicians and policy makers. A discussion regarding appropriate microecometrics for industrial sectors including chemical, pharmaceutical, insurance, finance, electronics, manufacturing and consumer products is also summarized.The German Waste Avoidance, Recovery and Disposal Act (KrW-/AbfG) creates the demand to select for "high quality" and "environmentally sound" waste treatment and disposal techniques. Waste disposers have to choose the most "high quality" and "environmentally sound" technique among different treatment and disposal options, and therefore must have a way to comparably evaluate the different techniques. Prognos developed an assessment method called HoVe to evaluate waste treatment and disposal facilities based on these new guidelines. It adheres to international standards of life cycle assessments (DIN/ISO 14 040). The assessment is based on emissio
n, material, energy and economic data which already exists, making it practical, time and cost efficient. HoVe employs three Impact Categories (IC) to evaluate the impact of waste treatment. Each IC is characterized by Impact Clusters (ICL) to which original plant data are allocated. The ICL consider the amount and quality of produced products and residues from treatment processes, as well as the issues of ecological impact and energy balance. Further they incorporate economic aspects in order to assess the economic soundness of treatment and disposal plants, a requirement of the KrW-/AbfG. A pilot assessment of treatment options for shredder residues proves the viability of the method.Crop protection aids, used in the agriculture phase, contribute a great deal to the environmental impact of food products. An adequate inclusion of those substances in life cycle assessment is usually hampered by the lack of relevant equivalency factors. In this paper rough equivalency factors are given for 65 frequently used herbicides and pesticides. Those factors are calculated according to the methodology, originally developed by EPA, which was used by CML in 1992. It is acknowledged that equivalency factors, derived in this way, have a limited value. They only indicate potential impacts, ignoring the fate of such substances. However, as long as better data are lacking, these figures provide a useful approximation.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been applied in the leather footwear industry. Due to the fact that the goal of the study is to point those steps in the footwear cycle which contribute most to the total environmental impact, only a simplified semi-quantitative methodology is used. Background-data of all the inputs and outputs from the system have been inventoried. Impact assessment has been restricted to classification and characterisation. From the results of this LCA it has been concluded that energy consumption is an important impact generator phase, due to the characteristics of the electricity production in the studied area (Catalonia and the rest of Spain). A remarkable impact is generated in the solid waste management phase, also due to its characteristics in the studied area. Another significant impact source is the cattle raising phase where great values of Global Warming, Acidification and Eutrophication Potentials are estimated. At the tannery, a great value of water eutrophication potential is observed and this phase is also important for its non-renewable resource consumption.Two different methods for Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) applied to the dairy industry was performed at two dairies. In the simplified method, total environmental loads from a dairy was registred and allocated to liquid milk. Energy and emissions are measured for each process step for the detailed method. Both methods have advantages and disadvantages. The simplified method captures all energy and emissions of dairy processing, but treats the dairy as a "black box". The energy consumption was found to be 1,27 MJ/l and 2,55 MJ/l for the two dairies. By use of the detailed method it is easy to "loose" information, and it is very time consuming. The energy consumption was lower than for the simplified method. The environmental loads can on the other hand be divided on the different process steps. The main conclusion is that choice of method depends on the purpose of
 the LCA-study.The effects on the external environment of seven concrete and steel building frames representative of present-day building technology in Sweden were analysed using LCA methodology. Obiects of the study included frame construction and supplememary materials. Several-storey offices and dwellings were studied. The functional unit was defined as one average m(2) of floor area during the lifetime of the building. Inventory data were elaborated for concrete and steel production, the building site, service life, demolition and final disposal. Parameters included were raw material use, energy use, emissions to air, emissions to water and waste generation. The inventory results were presented and evaluated as such, in addition to an interpretation by using three quantitative impact assessment methods. Parameters that weighed heavily were use of fossil fuels, CO2, electricity, SOx, NOx, alloy materials and waste, depending on what assessment method was used. Over the life cycle, building production from cradle to gate accounted for about the same contribution to total environmental loads as maintenance and replacement of heat losses through external walls during service life, whereas demolition and final disposal accounted for a considerably lower contribution.This paper presents and verifies the computer tool LCA-LAND for estimation of emissions from specific waste products disposed in mtmicipal solid waste landfills in European countries for use in the inventory analysis of LCA. Examples of input data (e.g. distribution of the waste product in different countries, composition of the product and physical/chenfical/biological properties of waste product components) and output data (e.g. estimated emissions to atmosphere and water) are given for a fictive waste product made of representative types of components (toluene, cellulose, polyvinylchloride (PVC), copper and chloride). Since waste products from different processes in the product system may be disposed at different landfills where they are mixed with waste originating outside the product system, the estimated emissions from specific waste products cannot be compared with measured emissions from true landfills. Hence, the computer tool is verified in terms of mass balances and sensitivity analyses. The mass balances agree exactly and the sensitivity analyses show that different types of waste product components behave differently in different types of landfills. Emission of e.g. toluene is significantly reduced in the presence of landfill top-cover, landfill gas combustion units and leachate treatment units. Generally, the sensitivity analysis shows good agreement between the relative proportions of various types of emissions (based on properties of the waste and properties of landfills) and good agreement with emission levels that would be expected based on a general understanding of landfill processes.Different lists of application areas for life cycle assessment are reviewed together with some suggestions for a typology of these application areas. It is concluded that the scope of a life cycle assessment is determined by the area of validity of the decision with respect to time, space, and interest groups affected. On this basis, six application areas are distinguished. It is further concluded that the application area has limited influence on the inventory analysis and impa
ct assessment phases, although these may be influenced significantly by the decision-maker and the complexity of the trade-offs between the involved environmental impacts. The reporting format for a life cycle assessment depends on the socio-economic importance of the decision, the intended audience, and the time available for decision making.Management of forest resources and related industries has a significant effect on the Finnish environment. Therefore there was an obvious need for a study to assess environmental impacts and to identify needs and options for environmental improvements in the forest sector. It was against this background that the Finnish Environment Institute carried out a life cycle assessment (LCA) of the Finnish forest industry. This application included methodological innovations compared with the traditional product-related LCA because it was a study of the whole production system of the mechanical and chemical forest industry. Areas for improvement of environmental protection in the forest sector for the year 2005 were identified on the basis of the inventory (emissions, wastes, etc.), environmental impact assessment and other available data. During the study a new impact assessment procedure was developed in order to assess more actual impacts of country-specific systems. Although the prioritized factors found were not strongly ranked against each other it can be concluded that maintaining biodiversity in the context of forestry practices and increasing the efficiency of energy use are the key issues in the environmental protection of the forest sector. Before detailed ranking of emissions and other stressors can be produced there is a need for more reliable stressor data, better understanding of stressor-effect relationships and more consensus on the importance of different environmental problems. Despite the limitations and needs for further development, the presented LCA approach can be regarded as a useful tool for providing a deeper understanding of the key issues in the environmental protection of a whole production system. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This paper argues that: (a) construction and operation of buildings is internationally a major cause of resource depletion and environmental pollution, (b) traditional criteria of construction cost and energy use estimation are insufficient in view of a comprehensive environmental impact analysis of buildings, (c) LCA (life-cycle analysis), "eco-bookkeeping" and "eco-balance" approaches could be advantageously utilized in concurrence with more traditional engineering, cost estimation and energy simulation to obtain a broader building design evaluation scheme and (d) appropriate IT-based computational tools could facilitate environmentally informed, integrative decisionmaking throughout the building design, construction, operation and decommissioning phases. Toward this end, this paper specifically introduces the prototypical realization of a computational tool for the integration of environmental impact modeling approaches within an object-oriented space-based CAD environment. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a means to analyze the environmental implications of product and service systems. As defined by international standards, the framework of LCA includes four distinct elements. The el
ements are goal and scope definition, life cycle inventory analysis, life cycle impact assessment, and life cycle interpretation. Although the LCA elements are at different stages of development, increased interest In the use of LCA will help fuel advancement of the science. The steel industry is gaining valuable experience in the use of LCA. The American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), with members in Canada, Chile, Mexico, and the United States initiated a LCA program in 1994. The program centers on training and education, conducting studies of steel products, participating in LCA projects which include steel, and promoting the development of LCA. The LCA program at AISI has proven to be successful. Over ten AISI member companies are directly participating in the effort, with even more companies represented at training and education events. LCA Projects in which AISI is active include an international steel industry study, a North American automobile industry benchmark study, and application of LCA to waste management activities.Recently Danone has been packaging a yoghurt product in a degradable package made of the renewable raw material polylactic acid (PLA). Apart from the development aspects of the tubs themselves, the company had to devise a disposal strategy and make preparations for a life-cycle analysis.Corporate environmental management is becoming more strategically oriented. With increased emphasis on the natural environmental by organizational stakeholders, including governments, stockholders, customers, employees and communities, the need for explicit consideration and incorporation of environmental strategy within corporate strategy has never been more critical to the organization. With such programs as design for the environment, total quality environmental management, life cycle analysis, green supply chain management, and ISO 14000 standards gaining notoriety, the operational and strategic decisions for environmental managers and businesses is becoming more complex. This paper integrates these elements and their attributes into a strategic assessment and decision tool using the systems with feedback or analytical network process (ANP) technique first introduced by Saaty. The ANP technique, which has been sparingly Investigated by researchers or applied by practitioners is useful for modeling dynamic strategies systemic influences on managerial decisions. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.The authors argue that thermodynamics offers a means of accounting for both resource inputs and waste outputs in a systematic and uniform way. The new feature of the present work is to extend the applications of exergy analysis to resource and waste accounting and to present the results in an integrated analytical framework, namely, life-cycle analysis (LCA). We conclude that exergy is appropriate for general statistical use, both as a measure of resource stocks and flows and as a measure of waste emissions and potential for causing environmental harm. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Although 'Sustainable Development' is invoked in current political and environmental debates, the concept has eluded precise definition. In general terms, 'sustainability' means working within three sets of constraints: techno-economic, environmental and social. Traditionally, engineering has been concerned with techno-economic issues. Expli
cit recognition of environmental and social issues has led to the way of thinking called Clean Technology, and to the use of more holistic analytical tools including Life Cycle Assessment. Howeover, it is argued here that a paradigm shift is needed in the way engineering skills and knowledge are used, as inputs to deliberative processes which go beyond techno-economic decisions. The need for this new paradigm is illustrated by the waste management sector, which is increasingly seen as needing the skills of the 'New Model' chemical engineer.Process and product models are commonly used for performing life-cycle assessments (LCAs) of the environmental impacts of materials and products through different stages of fabrication, use, and end-of-life options. In this article, we show that these models can be represented as process flow diagrams or as matrices of process interactions. In either representation, the inventory of environmental emissions and resources used is comparable, provided the process models are proportional in nature (any increase in product output produces a corresponding environmental burden). Matrix representations are advantageous if application cost, feedback flow, or speed of analysis is important. They are also useful in conjunction with comprehensive, general equilibrium models in which the system boundary of the problem (e.g., an LCA of a product) being analyzed is on the level of the national economy.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) software has been developed and a case study for Personal In the software, product life cycle flow is Computers (PCs) has been accomplished. represented by a coupled-tree structure. A flow window provides two kinds of views, a sheet view and a tree view, for ease in constructing a product life cycle in the software. Using this software, a case study has been achieved for desktop PCs and notebook PCs. Concerning four impact assessment categories, the greenhouse effect, acidification, eutrophication, and resource consumption, the environmental impact was large in the use and production stages.This paper discusses the principles of life cycle assessment (LCA) and design for environment (DFE) and their application in the design and development of the asymmetric digital subscriber loop (ADSL) high speed modem. This application was used as a case study to evaluate the feasibility of incorporating "green" issues into the design cycle. Section II focuses on the green design methodology, It describes some fundamentals and the state-of-the-art of LCA/DFE, It also raises some critical issues that show up in the definition of LCA/DFE methodology. Section III describes the actual case study, It shows how the green design methodology, described in Section II, is adopted to the project under study. More specifically, it is described how the LCA is introduced into the physical design stage of the product, which assumptions are taken into account for the LCA analysis, and how the analysis affects the usual product design how, It discusses how the study started by performing an LCA of the ADSL high speed modem R1 (Release 1), with a large emphasis on the analysis of manufacturing processes. Secondly, these LCA results were used as input for the DFE methodology, in order to design a perceived greener product, the ADSL high speed modem R2 (Release 2), The "greenness" of this new product is validated by comparing 
the two environmental profiles. This case study resulted in a coherent and extensive environmental assessment of some fundamental design options (and the associated manufacturing processes) involved in complex electronic devices. By implementing the results of this LCA into a specific DFE methodology, green design issues have been introduced in the design cycle as just another design constraint to be dealt with.Photovoltaic (PV) power systems call lead to significant reduction of emissions to the environment, Contrary to conventional fossil fuel-based electricity production, the environmental aspects of PV power systems ara mostly related to indirect processes such as cell and module manufacturing and 'end of life' waste management, Careful assessment of such environmental aspects throughout all life-cycle stages is required to reveal the contribution that PV power systems can make to environmental sustainability within fire energy sector. An expert workshop was held in Utrecht, The Netherlands, oil 25-27 June 1997 that addressed issues and approaches regarding the environmental aspects of PV power systems, including energy payback times, CO2 mitigation potential, environmental life-cycle assessment and health and safety assessment and control. Various issues of environmental importance were identified during the workshop and recommendations were made for further work to ensure that PV power systems will indeed fulfil the promise of environmental sustainability. (C) 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.The methodology used and results obtained for grid-connected photovoltaic (PV) plants in recent Swiss life-cycle assessment (LCA) studies on current and future energy systems are discussed Mono- and polycrystalline silicon cell technologies utilized in current panels as well as monocrystalline and amorphous cells for future applications were analysed for Swiss conditions. The environmental inventories of slanted-roof solar panels and large plants are presented. Greenhouse gas emissions from present and future electricity systems are compared The high electricity requirements for manufacturing determine most of the environmental hardens associated with current photovoltaics. However, due to increasing efficiency of production processes and cells, the environmental performance of PV systems is likely to improve substantially in the future. (C) 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.This paper addresses the air emissions of grid supply versus grid-connected and off-grid photovoltaic power generation, using the framework of life-cycle assessment, in the concert of rural household energy supply in Australia. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxides are calculated for the three life-cycle stages of manufacture, use and disposal. Sensitivities to materials and data inputs, as well as to component efficiencies, lifetimes and sizing are discussed. For each supply option, demand management options, including insulation and appliance choice, and the substitution of solar heating or bottled gas for electricity, are considered. The best option in all cases, in terms of life-cycle air emissions, is a grid-connected photovoltaic system used to supply an energy-efficient household with a mix of solar, gas and electric appliances. However, in financial terms, with current Australian energy prices, this option represents a high capital and life-cycle cost
. Additionally, for the grid options, electricity costs do not significantly disadvantage the high demand scenarios. Both results provide a clear illustration of current Australian energy-pricing policies being ill conflict with long-term environmental sustainability. (C) 1998 John Wiley C Sons, Ltd.The integration of photovoltaic (PV) systems in buildings shows several advantages compared to conventional PV power plants, The main objectives of the present study are the quantitative evaluation of the benefits of building-integrated PV systems over their entire life-cycle and the identification of best solutions to maximize their energy efficiency and CO2 mitigation potential. In order to achieve these objectives, a simplified life-cycle analysis (LCA) has Been carried oat, Firstly, a number of existing applications have been studied. Secondly, a parametric analysis of possible improvements in the balance-of-system (BOS) has been developed. Finally, the two steps have been combined,Pith the analysis of crystalline silicon technologies. Results are reported in terms of sever al indicators: energy pay-back time, CO2 yield and specific CO2 emissions, The indicators show that the integration of PV systems irt buildings clearly, increases the environmental benefits of present PV technology. These benefits will further increase with future PV technologies, Future optimized PV roof-integrated systems are expected to have an energy pay-back rime of around 1.5 year (1 year with heat recovery) and to save during their lifetime more than 20 times the amount of CO2 emitted daring their manufacturing (34 times heat recovery). (C) 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.The life cycle inventories (LCIs) of recyclable and recycled materials can be strongly affected by how the savings from recycling are accounted. Unfortunately, most LCI methodologies do not explicitly address the important and subjective question of how to allocate inputs and outputs between primary and secondary material. This paper describes an LCI methodology that enables the analyst to explore and define the accounting rules more explicitly. Examples are developed to demonstrate the workings of the methodology and its implications for materials selection. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The cycle assessment can evaluate th system-wide effects of product and process design options. Software development is streamlining and reducing the cost of life cycle assessments in the textile industry. One environmental decision support tool builds on the experience of life cycle assessment of textile products such as the inventory analysis of a woman's 100% polyester blouse. Other types of product evaluations might include analysis of the proposed eco-labeling systems being considered overseas that may pose trade barriers to the import of U.S. textiles. Additional uses include analysis of the cost of resource losses and opportunities for improving the system-wide cost-effectiveness of the integrated U.S. textile industry.With industrialization, the material flows in the world have grown enormously, expanded geographically and become more open and complex. Traditionally, the emissions have been strongly connected to earlier steps in the material flows (extraction and raw-materials intensive industry), but during the last few decades, the emissions from industrial pointsources h
ave decreased radically in the Western industrialized world. The result of the industrial 'cleanup' is a shift towards the latter steps of the societal material flows; the relative importance of consumption emissions has increased. As indicated in studies of the Rhine Basin, important prerequisites for this development have been increasing environmental awareness and public opinion, putting pressure on legislators, authorities and companies and a dynamic industrial development with structural changes, that have permitted investments in modern technology and emissions control. Despite the often radical emission reductions, problems with acidification, eutrophication, diffusion of persistent organic chemicals and climate change still persist on a regional and global level. During the last decade, there has been an increasing emphasis on the international and global environmental problems. The materials flow perspective has experienced a major breakthrough. Waste minimization, recycling, life-cycle analysis and environmental auditing have become major themes in most European countries and have also started to influence industry. The importance of the consumer and his attitudes and actions, as well as the relationship between trade and environment are often emphasized in this context. The industrial metabolism approach needs further development to be able to assist in meeting the modern challenges of environmental management. To sum up flows of a few elements or products in a limited region is not sufficient. It is necessary to develop the analysis of the context of the flows, include industrial, economic and geographical change in the analysis and more actively seek connection to political and industrial decision-making and human behavior and attitudes. The time-geographical Process Landscape launched by Torsten Hagerstrand could be an important source of inspiration in this context. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.The embodied energy of the four main materials used in the construction of an inert gas filled, double-glazed window, of a given size, was quantified. The four main materials considered were infill gas (argon, krypton and xenon), timber, aluminium and glass. The energy requirements of the underlying manufacturing processes are also estimated for the processing of the finished product. The total embodied energy for argon, krypton and xenon cavity filled windows (1.2 m by 1.2 m standard tilt and turn window), was found to be 1031 MJ, 1539 MJ and 5531 MJ per window, respectively. For argon filled cavities, this leads to the production of 94.7 kg of CO2, 1.2 kg of SO2 and 0.4 kg of NOx per window. The results presented in this paper are initial findings in the first stages of a complete Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of double-glazed windows for sustainable buildings. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.The environmental friendliness of paper products is a topic of today's ecology related discussion. Nowadays, this discussion also affects the printed media such as newspapers and magazines. Besides the conventional method of distributing information through printed media, it is also possible to publish them electronically. Since information technology is developing fast and internet access is widely available, electronic media are of an increasing significance. However, the environmental impacts of electronic media-particularly in comp
arison with printed media - have not been part of the discussion. The paper compares the environmental friendliness of printed newspapers and electronically published newspapers by using life cycle assessment methods. For both products the environmental burdens in terms of energy consumption, airborne and waterborne emissions and dumped waste occurring over the whole life cycle are analysed and compared.Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a conceptual tool that attempts to quantify the environmental consequences of a product, process, or activity across its entire life cycle. However, manufacturing plant engineers have questioned how to apply LCA to the processes that they can control. In this paper, a method of quantifying the environmental and resource impacts of manufacturing processes is presented. This new method utilizes Input Output Analysis coupled with Markov decision making into a tool that is useful to plant managers in determining and modifying the environmental impacts of their plant.There is an increasing demand to move the radio base station closer to the antenna for future mobile telecommunication systems, which requires a significant reduction in weight and volume and environmental compatibility. In this work, an evaluation of environmental impact and reliability when using anisotropically conductive adhesives (ACA) for flip-chip joining in radio base station applications has been performed. Conventional FR-4 substrate has been used to assemble a digital asic chip using an anisotropically conductive adhesive and flip-chip technology. The chip has a smallest pitch of 128 mu m with 7,76 mm in chip size and has in total 216 bumps with a bump size of 108x120 mu m. Bumping was made using the electroless nickel/gold technology. The bonding quality has been characterized by optical and scanning electron microscopy and substrate planarity measurement. Main quality affecting parameters are misalignment and softening of the FR-4 substrate during assembly which lead to high joint resistance. The reliability testing was conducted in the temperature cycling test between -40 and +125 degrees C for 1000 cycles 125 degrees C aging test I for 1000 hours and humidity test 85/85, 500 hours. The results show that relatively small resistance change has been observed after the reliability testing. The environmental impact evaluation has been done as a material content declaration and as a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). By using the flip-chip ACA joining technology, the content of environmental risky materials has been reduced more than ten times and the use of precious metals has been reduced more than 30 times compared to conventional surface mount technology.The current state of knowledge in the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) field has recently been recently assessed. Within the broader sphere of sustainable development, Life Cycle Assessment is emerging as a powerful tool that potentially will aid industry in the environmental assessment of their products and operations Rk recognised that the timber industry should accept responsibility for the environmental impacts caused in all process stages. A number of prerequisites ae discussed in the paper for the implementation of an LCA' in one sector of the timber industry.System closure is gaining support as the preferred way to achieve further emission reduction and to minimize the costs of environmental 
protection. In this paper we first give a brief review of applications in Canada. Next, research activities in prediction and design, separation processes, corrosion control, and process dynamics are described to highlight the multi-disciplinary approach and multitude of issues to be considered while embarking on the path of system closure. Selected case studies are then presented to demonstrate technology transfer from research to mill scale application. Finally, we propose a systems engineering approach, incorporating life cycle assessment, as an improved method to evaluate system closure options.Life cycle assessment (LCA) approach has been applied to evaluate a base case gasoline powered Escort sedan and four alternative systems by using fuels converted the coal for automobiles in terms of energy utilization and emission reduction in China. The life cycle stages of each system were inventoried in terms of material flow and energy flow. The results show that all the alternative scenarios have lower energy efficiencies than the base case. Among the alternative scenarios, the high efficiency EV has the highest energy efficiency; coal-to-gasoline scenario has the lowest energy efficiency; and coal-to-methanol is in the middle. Compared to the base case, the emissions in both the coal-to-electricity-EV/high efficiency battery and coal-to-electricity-EV/low efficiency battery systems illustrate higher volume in CO2, SO2 and PM, and lower amount in NOx, CO and THC. The coal-methanol-FFV system shows improvement in SO2, NOx, CO and THC emissions, but increase in CO2 and PM.The Dauphine province in south-eastern France is a major area for walnut orchards. Growers manage their orchards with some specific agroforestry features: grafted walnut trees may be pruned to form a bottom log with a timber end use (dual purpose trees), and intercrops may be grown between the tree lines. These agroforestry practices are however only partially adopted. Three surveys were conducted in 1993, 1995 and 1996 to elicit the farmer motivations for adopting or rejecting agroforestry management features. The walnut industry is a key activity in two parts of Dauphine: the Isere valley, and the Diois basin. The reasons for adoption of agroforestry practices are discussed. In the Isere valley, the priority is given to walnut production in specialised farms, and the extension services are opposed to agroforestry practices. In the dryer Diois area, the main explanations for agroforestry adoption were the welfare of the farmer family, the age of the farm manager, and the contribution of walnut production to the family income. Dual purpose management schemes were characterised by extended investment return delays, but proved to be the most rewarding schemes when practised with intercrops. A very extensive tree management with few pest control operations improved the profitability. Intensive orchards had a low bequest value at the time of inheritance, in contrast to dual-purpose orchards. The age of the farmer at planting time appeared to be a key criterion for agroforestry management adoption.The environment has emerged as an important determinant of the performance of the modem chemical industry. This paper reviews approaches for incorporating environmental issues into the design of new processes and manufacturing facilities. The organizational framework is the design proc
ess itself, which includes framing the problem and generating, analyzing, and evaluating alternatives. A historical perspective on the chemical process synthesis problem illustrates how both performance objectives and the context of the design have evolved to the point where environmental issues must be considered throughout the production chain. In particular, the review illustrates the need to view environmental issues as part of the design objectives rather than as constraints on operations. A concluding section identifies gaps in the literature and opportunities for additional research.The production and use of biomass for energy has both positive and negative impacts on the environment. The environmental impacts of energy crops should be clarified before political choices concerning energy crops are made. An important aid to policy-making would be a systematic methodology to assess the environmental sustainability of energy crops. So far, most studies on the environmental aspects of energy crops deal mainly with the energy production of the crops and the possible consequences for CO2 mitigation. The Dutch Centre for Agriculture and Environment (CLM) has developed a systematic methodology to assess the ecological and socio-economic sustainability of biomass crops. The method is best described as a multicriteria analysis of process chains and is very much related to Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Characteristics of our methodology are the use of: definition of functional units; analysis of the entire lifecycle; definition of yield levels and corresponding agricultural practices; analysis of both ecological and economic criteria; definition of reference systems; definition of procedures for normalisation and weighting. CLM has applied the method to assess the sustainability of ten potentially interesting energy crops in four European regions. The results are used to outline the perspectives for large scale production of biomass crops with regard to the medium and long term land availability in Europe. For the crops considered, net energy budget ranges from 85 GJ net avoided fossil energy per ha for rape seed for fuel to 248 GJ net avoided fossil energy per ha for silage maize for electricity from gasification. The methodology of the tool and its results were discussed at the concerted action "Environmental aspects of biomass production and routes for European energy supply" (AIR3-94-2455), organised by CLM in 1996. Major conclusions of the research: Multicriteria analysis of process lifecycles is at present the best available option to assess the ecological and economical sustainability of energy crops. However, it is recognised that further research and development activities in the field of LCA are necessary; Use of crops for generation of electricity is preferred to use of crops for transport fuels since the latter score low on both ecological and socio-economical criteria. Large scale use and production of energy crops requires (a) choices and goals from agricultural, environmental, and energy policies, and (b) policy instruments for financial incentives e.g. with payments or with tax rebates, preferably per kilogram avoided CO2 emission. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Many influential organisations foresee biomass playing a key role in a future, more sustainable, global energy supply matrix. Countries such as Aust
ria, Brazil, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, India, the USA and the UK are actively encouraging the use of biomass for energy, and pushing forward the development of the necessary knowledge and technology for modern biomass energy systems. There is a growing consensus that renewable energy must progressively displace the use of fossil fuels, with fears of global climate change adding urgency to this need. Among the available types of renewable energy biomass is unique in its ability to provide solid, liquid and gaseous fuels which can be stored and transported. The potential resource for bioenergy is large, especially in forest-rich nations, in richer countries where there is a surplus of agricultural land, and in many low latitude countries where high biomass yields are possible. Therefore we expect biomass to be an important fuel of the future, but this cannot be taken for granted. The systems adopted must demonstrate clear environmental and social benefits relative to alternatives if the potential is to be realised. These benefits are not inherent to biomass energy, but depend on site- and fuel cycle-specific factors. Life-cycle analysis and evaluation of external costs are important means for assessing the social and environmental pros and cons of bioenergy systems. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The environmental impacts of selected hemp products are compared to conventional products and subjected to a life cycle assessment. In effect there are no generally valid statements. The results strongly depend on the particular product life cycle. Different utilisation of hemp fibres (here: textiles, insulating card web, plastic stiffening) leads to partly different results. And also for a single use results differ when the life cycle is modified. Nevertheless for specific cases the ecological pros and cons of hemp fibres can be determined.Environmental aspects are becoming increasingly important when building products are evaluated comprehensively. Considering the principles of the Life Cycle Assessment methodology, energy and mass flow inventories of the production and manufacturing of eight different insulation materials, including two wood based materials, are compiled and evaluated in an impact assessment phase. Some options for product and production specific improvements are located, but no clear ranking of the materials could be verified. In order to use the information for the practical decision-making processes, a reduction of complexity as well as an extension of the evaluation including qualitative aspects covering the whole life cycle of building constructions is necessary.In spite of more than 15 years of biomass district heating (BMDH) and more than 300 realised plants in Austria there are still some essential bottlenecks. By means of a life-cycle analysis the energy system District Heating with Biomass was described, evaluated and compared to other heating systems in order to specify bottlenecks and find out possible solutions. The results presented in this paper focus on the two main limiting factors fdr a future extension: the fuel supply and the economic situation. The additional long-term potential of biomass for thermal utilisation in Austria is as high as the amount used at present. A future large-scale and professional biomass fuel supply will have to focus on mechanised forest wood chip production from f
irst thinnigs. The weak points culminate in the fact that high public investment grants are required to render such systems economically efficient and competitive on the market. Measures taken in order to lower costs and overcome this barrier are avoiding poor plant design and reducing investment costs (standardisation, serial manufacturing, learning effects). A gradual reduction of subsidies is essential in order to reach this aims.In many predictions for the future development of the energy supply, biomass is the number one renewable energy carrier. The reasons for this are rather simple, biomass is easy to handle with already well-known technologies, it is available in every region of the world and it is economical competitive in comparison to other renewable energy carriers. For the development and assessment of perspectives of renewable energy carriers it is essential to analyse the potential and the environmental impacts. In this presentation different scenarios of the supply prospects of biomass in the European Union will be given. For the first time data to the different sources and the resulting biofuels will be presented separately. In addition, the life cycle analysis of biofuels and the adjunctive transport systems will be presented. With the results of this report we are able to assess the chances and possibilities of a biofuel based transport-system in Europe.In the framework of the Altener Program and the OSTC-Woodsustain project [1], we have analysed the carbon emissions reductions that could be achieved by producing energy from short rotation coppice (SRC). We applied a basic life cycle assessment methodology (LCA) in order to estimate all carbon emissions related with wood cultivation, wood pre-treatment and final energy production. In addition, we have calculated the energy balance of all these operations. The aim of these estimations is to know the real impacts of substituting fossil fuels with SRC on the global. energy system efficiency and on the atmospheric carbon emissions. Three agricultural scenarios, based on the level of intensification, have been analysed. Different wood pre treatment are considered for three types of final energy production : local peak electricity, local cogeneration of heat and power (CHP) and centralised base power production. Depending on cultivation practices, pre-treatment choices and final energy conversion systems, we estimated carbon emissions reductions per hectare of SRC of 3.1 to 10.5 tC/ha/a by substituting fossil fuels with wood chips.A methodology has been developed for biomass-to-energy which links different resource assessment models (through GIS) with various yield and financial models, provided that appropriate data sets are available. It has been validated on Eve test sites covering a range of agro-climatic factors, biomass feed-stock types and energy applications. An Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) for short rotation willow coppice has been completed; the rule-base for a 'meso-scale' Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) capability has been tested against one of the test sites. This approach can be applied to other key renewable energy sources (wind, bio-waste and micro-hydro); a pilot wind study has been completed for UK and Sweden. In conclusion, the analytical tool is useful for the determination of the real potential of renewable energy in the test regions selected. Given the availa
bility of suitable data, this approach could be adopted by other Member States within the European Union.Biomass is one of the crucial energy carriers for future energy systems. Of particular importance are residues, such as organic household refuse ("biowaste"). This paper, as part of an effort to analyse fuels for fuel cell systems, investigates the environmental impacts of anaerobic digestion of biowaste as compared to composting plants. it is shown that processing 1 t biowaste in a digestion plant reduces total greenhouse gases by up to 186 kg CO2 equiv, and limits other environmental impacts such as land use and particle emissions. Fuel cells are particularly attractive in this application because of the high electrical efficiency and the low emission level.The building environmental assessment field is reviewed since it first came into prominence in the early 1990s. Key limitations of existing building environmental assessment methods are identified and the emerging importance of issues such as sustainability, life-cycle assessment, globalization and standardization are discussed. The author provides a constructive direction for emerging 'second generation' building environmental assessment methods and protocols. This includes a standardization of environmental assessment methodologies; a common, generalized framework which allows for adaptation of specific and changing explicit criteria and an increased emphasis on building performance over time.In the Federal State of Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany, a decision tool has been developed, suitable for quantification and evaluation of environmental impacts caused by remedial action techniques. For the first time, the quantified environmental impacts of remedial actions can be taken into account in decision making, in addition to their technical or financial aspects. The basic aspects of life cycle assessment and the specific adaptations of the method to remedial action techniques are described and the first results are illustrated with an example.In the Federal State of Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany, a decision tool has been developed, suitable for quantification and evaluation of environmental impacts caused by remedial action techniques. For the first time, the quantified environmental impacts of remedial actions can be taken into account in decision making, in addition to the technical or financial aspects. The basic aspects of life cycle assessment and the specific adaptations of the method to remedial action techniques are described.A decision support system for treatment of dredged sediments (DSTS) has been constructed, in which the environmental effects of various treatment options applied can be compared. The effects are evaluated by scores on environmental themes like global warming and acidification, using life cycle assessment methodology.New forms of communication and co-operation do not have the same environmental impact pattern as current forms of work. Environmental impacts are produced by work technologies (mainly communication technologies), buildings (construction, maintenance, operation and destruction) and transport (induced by work relations and housing). The thesis that new information technologies reduce transport and building energy consumption has not been verified in practice until now. The contribution discusses the interrelation between different impacts, gives qua
ntitative data of environmental impact based on the combination of existing life cycle analysis and tries to estimate possible future developments. The question of the necessity of new buildings and the possible development of virtual buildings is discussed in relation with sustainable development.The research presented is an interim report based on activities at ESTCO Energy that are part of the International Energy Agency Implementing Agreement for Hybrid and Electric Vehicle Technologies and Programmes that began in 1993. The Annex II research task of this agreement is to study the energy and environmental impacts of electric vehicles. The life cycle analysis (LCA) of batteries in electric vehicles is reviewed and discussed in terms of the automobile industry's growing commitment to sustainable transportation. The environmental impact of some of the existing electric vehicle battery systems that are now in use, such as lead acid and Ni/Cd, is examined. Future technologies now being commercialized, such as advanced nickel-based batteries e.g. Ni/metal hydride and lithium batteries as well as fuel cells, are also discussed.This paper describes the stages involved in designing fluid power systems and how these relate to the research being undertaken at the Engineering Design Centre in Fluid Power Systems, University of Bath. An overview of the research is given and the status of the current project areas is presented relating to: circuit configuration design; computer simulation and performance evaluation; design for low vibration and noise; design methodology for fluid power systems; a multimedia media design aid; and life cycle assessment.Zero-emission mandates are opening commercial markets for battery-powered electric vehicles. Although these vehicles do not produce tailpipe emissions, recent assessments have raised concerns that emissions generated by recycling lead-acid batteries used in electric vehicles may create a major environmental impact. We used an abridged life-cycle assessment, which produces easily comprehended information about each life stage of a product, to analyze environmental impacts associated with recycling and waste management of four battery technologies likely to be used in electric vehicles over the next 5-10 years. We ranked recycling and waste management impacts and emphasized environmental consequences associated with design factors. Our results suggest that nickel-metal hydride batteries are the most environmentally benign; however, an infrastructure for recycling these batteries does not exist. Although its toxicity is relatively low, the sodium-sulfur battery received the poorest ranking, because it is not recyclable. Lead-acid and nickel-cadmium batteries are highly recyclable, but the question of significant toxicity remains.Although the level of recycling activities fluctuates over time, the underlying driving forces point to the overall increase of these activities. Recycling is both an economic as well as environmental activity. As an economic activity, recycling represents recovery of residual value from waste product. As an environmental activity, recycling is neither inherently positive nor negative. Life cycle assessment methodology can be applied to the recycling process just like to any other process to assess the overall impact. The environmental impact can be assessed in terms of local, reg
ional and global impacts. Ecoprofile is a form of life cycle assessment but with the application of weighing factors which allow for comparison and rating of impacts.For plastics containing waste streams disposal/recycling alternatives to landfilling or incineration include: a) reuse of parts, b) reclamation/melt reprocessing of contaminated single plastics or commingled streams, c) reclamation followed by chemical modification of single plastics or compatibilization of commingled streams, d) thermolysis to fuels/chemicals, and e) thermolysis/solvolysis to monomers. Life cycle analysis principles can be applied to these alternatives to establish an approximate hierarchy of energy recovery potential. In this article, a methodology to rank the various recovery options in terms of potential energy savings by defining their respective sub-systems and estimating energy requirements is presented. By establishing the proper boundary conditions that place the alternatives considered on a comparable basis, it is shown that the overall energy requirements for most alternatives are well below those of landfilling (highest energy consumption), and for some alternatives closer to those of reuse (lowest energy consumption).An important cornerstone of our society is the individual mobility which, today, chiefly can only be offered by the automobile. However, in the industrial countries the car at the same time is exposed to harsh criticism as far as environmental pollution is discussed. Goal of this presentation is to show a scientific method by means of which environmental loads during manufacture, use and utilization/disposal of whole systems - in this special case vehicles - can be quantified and optimized. In order to do this the instrument of life cycle analysis of parts and procedures is used and whilst this is done the scientific method is developed beyond the level of literature. Due to these modifications the results are only useful if the boundary conditions are mentioned in detail. Considerations on the system such as the examination of an automobile require a method extended by essential criteria due to its complexity. Possibilities are presented which help to describe the product life cycle of an automobile sufficiently accurate by careful examination of the main parameters such as material, material intensity and fabrication procedures. As demonstrated on a small car, an automobile of upper standard and a train respective ways of action are shown and results of a system analysis are represented. As regards automobiles various weak points exist. On the one hand these are specific parameters during manufacture and on the other hand during the utilization phase the fuel consumption and its production. The track-bound traffic shows disadvantages if the generation of current is unfavourable. Therefore optimization potentials are to be seen in the field of fuel efficiency and its underlying factors as well as in the field of electricity supply.An environmental-friendly and effective cycle economy calls for an open information connection concerning the designers, the recyclers and the manufacturers of recycling techniques. Disposal and recycling information has to be available for the design, including the product assessment. The recycler and the manufacturer of recycling techniques need general conditions and product information from the design.
 The requirements for the information system are derived from these needs. The concept designates a standardised data model. A federalised data base system with appropriate transformations is suggested for the data organisation.An approach is being developed to examine technologies for their energy saving potential and their capabilities to meet various functional needs while causing less impact to the environment than conventional approaches for meeting these needs. Four technologies will be examined, including: electric vehicles, compact fluorescent lamps, electronic ballasts, and automatic light sensors. While some of these technologies are commercially applicable today in special markets, the majority of them suffer from the "high-first-cost" syndrome. The paradigm of "ecological efficiency" that will be developed will offer opportunities to evaluate these technologies on the basis of their life-cycle assessment, and therefore, quantify their life-time benefits. Present and projected use of these technologies will be studied in ten target countries: Denmark, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, and the United States. Because the future price of energy, and the level and cost of clean-up due to energy use is uncertain, any attempt to minimize the use of fossil fuels and associated technologies provides less risk to the users and developers of such technologies. This risk is embodied in terms of higher future financial commitment. The ten technologies are penetrating various markets in the ten target countries at differing levels. New technologies were not purchased for field study, but rather, research team members monitored the performance of the technologies in the target countries through ongoing projects in these countries. As a result of the country surveys, two characteristics were clearly identified during the collaborative research: 1) possible pitfalls and drawbacks of using such technologies in different countries, and 2) expected market penetration of the technologies.Identifying and understanding factors that affect interpretation of sediment toxicity is critical to the development and standardization of sediment test methods. In this study, we evaluated the influence of sediment particle size on survival, growth, emergence, and reproduction in a life cycle test with the midge Chironomus tentans, and on substrate selection behaviour of C. tentans larvae. In the life cycle assessment, larval development was followed for one generation on six substrates with mean particle sizes of 8, 146, 218, 306, 448, and 592 mu m. For behavioural tests, first and third instar larvae were provided with a choice between paired substrates, with and without equal quantities of food. Survival of larvae at 20 d was not affected by particle size; however, survival of larvae at test completion was significantly reduced (65.6%) in the 8 mu m substrate. Larval growth was not systematically related to particle size. Total emergence was significantly lower in the 8 and 592 mu m substrates (50 and 53.1%, respectively) relative to the other substrates, reflecting the lower survival in these treatments. In addition, time to first emergence was significantly longer, and the rate of emergence depressed, in the 8 mu m treatment. Reproductive output (mean eggs/female) was not significantly different among substrates, altho
ugh fewer egg masses were produced in the 592 and 8 mu m substrates. In behavioural tests, third instar larvae exhibited a weak preference for the smaller of two grain sizes when food was equally available, but this was not systematically related to the absolute difference in mean grain size. In contrast, first instar larvae consistently selected the smaller of two grain sizes when food was equally available; for these larvae, substrate selection was significantly correlated with the absolute difference in mean grain size. When food supply differed between substrates, a significantly higher proportion of both first and third instar larvae selected the substrate with food, independent of particle size. Together, the life cycle and behavioural data from this study suggest that sediment particle size, by itself, should not significantly influence interpretation of the results of toxicity tests with C. tentans.Plastic parts for automobiles, especially plastic fuel tanks, must fulfil all demands placed upon them during their entire service life under conditions which vary a great deal within the car environment. Plastic fuel tanks have to be qualified by testing with respect to function, service life, environmental impact and compatibility. This paper describes modern strategies for environmental qualification, based on test tailoring concepts. Tailoring includes a life-cycle analysis (LCA), an analysis of environmental influences during all phases of the lifecycle and the derivation of test procedures and parameters. Problems of time compression and acceleration of tests are included, methods for measuring the environmental impact are explained. Plastic fuel tanks are regarded as complex technical systems with highest demands placed on both their reliability and durability. They must maintain their functionality during the entire service life of an automobile, withstanding various environmental impacts such as mechanical shocks and vibrations, temperature extremes, humidity storage, sunlight and chemical attacks from the environment and the fuels used. Some test procedures, such as shape stability test, fuel resistance test, creeping tests, temperature shock test, heat soaking and:all test are described in this paper. Special emphasis has been placed on environmental compatibility tests such as permeation tests in accordance with ECE-or SHED-Specifications.The paradigm of sustainable construction has substituted in recent years the paradigm of industrialized housing construction that was basically based on prefabrication techniques: the substitution of manpower by capital. Habitat 11 Conference -Istanbul, June 1996- has reinforced the vision and necessity of a sustainable development of the urban space supported by decentralization policies, small scale production, local-resources utilization, recycling of production processes and construction residues, reduction of embodied energy in buildings and infrastructural works, among other factors. This concept affects the organization of the productive process and the production units, the building materials industry, the specialization of the labour force, the equipment and tools used in the process, just as other exogenous factors like transportation. But, parallel to the generalized (globalize) objective of sustainable construction, the materials. and building technical processes are modified th
rough the innovations, from other branches of the scientific-technologic knowledge like materials science, biotechnology, solid states physics, organic and inorganic chemistry, process engineering production engineering and management, and other interdisciplinary areas. The tendency is towards an approach they call technological syncretism in housing production (Cilento, 1996a). In this essay are analyzed with that syncretic vision the processes of construction innovations and its limitations, the importance of building products life-cycle analysis, the idea of technological, economical. social and ecological sustainability of construction, and the tendencies in new materials and processes that affects -any way- the professionals, promoters, contractors and the users.In any overall balance of hydrogen energy systems it is the way in which this energy is generated and the primary energy required to produce the equipment that are of decisive importance. Excerpts from the results of a study entitled "Process Chain Analysis for a Hydrogen Energy System", commissioned by the Bavarian State Ministry of Economics, Transportation and Technology are presented and commented on. (C) 1997 International Association for Hydrogen Energy.This study tests the Life Cycle Analysis methodology for motorway infrastructures. The investigation addresses the comparison of air pollution impacts of motorway alternatives. The atmospheric emissions are estimated over an infrastructure operation period of 50 years (motorway lifetime). Two scenarios for emission factors are considered. The first one takes constant emission factors for vehicles and the second one makes hypotheses on their variation during 50 years, including the participation of electrical vehicles. Moreover, assumptions on vehicle types and traffic composition are made. The global potential impacts (greenhouse effect, acidification, smog, toxicity) caused by these emissions have been assessed. Life cycle assessment seems a good step towards new methodologies for global analysis of road infrastructure impacts on the environment.Public interest is increasingly focused on leather goods and the potential risks to our health and the environment arising from them. Although these hazards are not substantiated by any established findings, the media seize on them and often paint a very alarmist picture in their stories. Fortunately, the real picture is not all black, there are also some positive aspects. The leather industry is making considerable progress in improving its environmental performance. This paper will look at risk and life-cycle assessment of leather dyes. The identification of human health and environmental hazards are important prerequisites for risk and life cycle assessment. Good quality information on exposure is needed to address the risk objectively, and possible options for risk reduction. Risk management should indeed start with a careful selection of colorants that exhibit the required performance with regard to substrate affinity, fastness and other boundary conditions. The environmental risk posed by a colorant can be defined in both its inherent ecotoxicity and the concentrations attained in the environmental compartments. There is an increasing body of circumstantial evidence indicating that the portion of colorants entering the environment is ultimately degradable either by biologi
cal or photochemical pathways.The recycling of car scrap is an important source of metals and materials for the secondary materials processing industry. In Europe more than 90 % of the aluminum used in automobiles is recycled. The driving force behind this excellent recycling rate is the inherent value of aluminum. Traditionally the processing of scrap cars starts with size reduction by a shredder. As a second step various sorting procedures generate different material fractions. The metallic fractions are recycled and the residual "fluff" a mixture of plastic, cloth, rubber and glass is currently landfilled. Aluminum is being used in a multitude of applications in the automotive industry casting alloys as well as wrought alloys are applied. Therefore the recovered aluminum fractions consist of a mixture of different alloys. Most of this mixed aluminum scrap is returned into the production of new cast automotive aluminum parts. Wrought alloys are produced only on a virgin metal basis due to their tight impurity tolerances. The production of wrought alloys on aluminum car scrap basis requires an upgrading technology which is able to sort alloys by grade or segregate alloys during dismantling. Future concepts of aluminum intensive vehicles have to fulfil as well as technical and economic also ecological aspects. Terms like green manufacturing, life cycle analysis, recyclability, closed loop recycling are used to evaluate new concepts. Consequently there exists a certain demand to investigate the parameters for closed loop recycling procedures of automotive aluminum parts. The paper examines technical possibilities for dismantled aluminum intensive automotive parts to generate wrought alloy scrap fractions by using conventionally processing techniques.Minerals underpin major sectors of the national economies of most industrialised countries. They are the raw materials of the manufacturing, construction and energy industries on which our standards of living depend. Mineral production in the UK was worth pound 21.8 billion in 1996. There is increasing concern about the environmental impact of mineral extraction. The concept of sustainable development requires that the most efficient and effective use is made of minerals, to maximise the economic value of the resource and to minimise environmental impact. Legislation and regulation based on the principles of sustainable development are increasingly concerned with mineral activities. Full life-cycle analysis of minerals from extraction, through processing to disposal and the re-use of land is, therefore, essential. Minerals are valued for their physical and/or chemical properties, either in a raw or processed form. These properties also determine the extent to which minerals, or their derived products, can be recycled or re-used. This presentation reviews some of the properties of energy, metallic and non-metallic minerals, with specific reference to minerals extraction in Britain, and considers the new technologies that are needed to improve the environmental performance of the industry into the twenty-first century.Spin-on oil filters began their use on the automobile in 1956. Until recently almost all spent filters were disposed of landfills. An EPA study in 1992 concluded that if oil tilters were adequately drained and did not contain terne plate; a lead based plating, the filters would not 
be considered hazardous waste and could be disposed of in landfills. The individual states however are free to impose more stringent regulations and many states have done so, banning oil filters from their landfills. In this process new businesses have evolved to deal with the disposal and recycling of used oil filters. Filter manufactures and OE vehicle manufactures have been looking at better ways to lessen this waste disposal impact. The "Green" trend has been alive in Europe for several years and many of their automobiles incorporate a disposable cartridge filter inserted into a permanently mounted housing. Many of these filters still have metal components which must be separated and recycled. Newer designs being considered incorporate no metal components or hazardous materials and therefore can be wholly incinerated. Efforts are also underway to extend the use of the filters. Environmental impact models value re-use even higher on the scale. Filter materials are available today that can withstand repeated cleanings and would last the life of a vehicle. However, a "Life Cycle Analysis" does not necessarily justify the shift from the conventional spin-on filter. Other influences will impact the decision to make this quantum change.Although the bioreactor landfill concept is gaining rapid acceptance as an operational strategy for a modern day municipal solid waste (MSW) landfill in the technical community, the economic feasibility in the California regulatory environment has not been fully explored. While landfill managers and engineers are well aware of the benefits (gains in airspace, enhanced gas production, etc.) and cost effectiveness of leachate recirculation that a bioreactor landfill presents, the costs of a full scale operation and regulatory requirements are not well known. Therefore, operators who may be inclined to implement an operational strategy based on the obvious technical merits may not be able to because of uncertainties in the full scale costs including regulatory uncertainties that may affect such costs. In California, implementation entails addressing a myriad of local and state regulations related to design and operations-some of which may substantially affect the economic benefits of the bioreactor operation. The life cycle analysis of a bioreactor landfill in California evaluates the design and operational modifications and the associated costs necessary to convert a dry lined landfill to a bioreactor landfill within the framework of the current regulatory environment. The bioreactor design and life cycle cost model estimate the development, operating, closure, and post closure costs of the bioreactor landfill and compare the costs with those of a traditional dry landfill as currently permitted under California regulations. Further, and more importantly, the life cycle cost model is used to run sensitivity analyses to demonstrate the effects of certain variables on various cost components. For example, the model can evaluate if the added cost to install a double containment system, if imposed by the regulatory community, would make the bioreactor landfill noneconomical. The life cycle cost model enables landfill operators to assess the economic feasibility of a bioreactor landfill in the current competitive California market. The per-ton cost differential that the cost model identifies enables operators to dete
rmine their operating rate. Also, the cost model facilitates a more complete assessment of the bioreactor landfill concept outside of the technical community and is a necessary step toward achieving wide acceptance by operators, regulators and the environmental community.By evaluating two environmental aspects of televisions - lifecycle energy use and the impact of the lead in the cathode ray tube, we explore practical approaches to lifecycle assessment. Specifically, comparing the environmental impacts of different models is easier and more informative than trying to assess the environmental significance of the average impact in absolute terms. By examining the differences in energy use of similar models of televisions, we find that energy use among similar televisions varies widely. In addition, we introduce the concept of marginal emissions, and explore the application of this concept to the impact of lead from television cathode ray tube screens.Industrial Ecology (IE) is an interdisciplinary field of study that uses system approaches to focus upon the relationship of industrialism to organisms and their environment. IE promotes changes from a wasteful economy, to a closed looped system of production and consumption. Through this mechanism, industrial, governmental and consumer waste is reused, recycled, and remanufactured to the limits of knowledge and technology. Nanotechnology is technology operating at the atomic level. An application of this technology is the manufacture of inert and bio-objects. Similar to nature, bio-engineered "software" instructions will be the blueprint for the assembly and operation of products at, or from the atomic level. The development of this technology presents the possibility of the application to dis-assemble existing and future waste (inert and bio) to the molecular level and then re-assemble it into new resources and products. This cyclical approach, if designed into the system, would allow the raw materials used in objects to never reach end-of-life.A life cycle analysis (LCA) case study evaluates the environmental load of CD-ROM drives. We performed a life cycle inventory using data for mechanical parts compiled from company records and data for electronic parts compiled from governmental and industrial records. We evaluated carbon dioxide (CO(2)) emissions and found that their suppression depends heavily on the design parts and circuits.Products and services cause different environmental problems during the different stages of their life cycle. The Life Cycle Assessment tool aims to identify possibilities to improve the environmental behavior of the systems under consideration. Therefore it is necessary to systematically collect and interpret material and energy flows for all relevant processes. The whole life cycle of a system has to be considered to prevent the neglecting or shift of possible important environmental aspects. In order to support designers, engineers and decision makers to make better informed decisions, it is necessary to perform LCA studies and economic assessments at a very early stage in product design. It is very well known, that the cost and environmental performance responsibility for a product lies mainly in the hand of the designers. Therefore management tools and procedures have to be found or developed to include LCA in this early stage. By means of an integration ap
proach LCA can help to enlarge today's valuation and decision making decisively. The earlier a well informed and not somehow fast performed decision can take place, the more freedom the designers have. This is getting more and more important with the decrease of product innovation times. A basic element of the potential of this approach, so called Life Cycle Engineering (LCE), is shown exemplary for an electronic specific component, a PWB. Starting from forming a parametric calculation:model it will be shown how parameter variation will influence the results and how decisions are presented.This joint study between Environment Canada and Northern Telecom aimed at carrying out an LCA on a manufactured product, the Nortel M7310 business telephone, in order to identify improvement strategies. The telephone, invented a century ago, by Alexander Graham Bell in Canada, is emblematic of a sophisticated but common everyday product. As such, this study provides an excellent demonstration of the benefits of Design-for-Environment. This paper describes the details of the methodology.Since 1995, Nortel (Northern Telecom Ltd.) has made several environmental achievements, including: a lead-free interconnection technology; use of a nonhalogenated flame retardant for printed circuit broads; and a I eduction in the diversity of plastics in telephones. In 1997, Nortel decided to consolidate these achievements into one green design research project, using a telephone as a predictive model. The purpose of this project was: 1) to develop new environmental design process metrics; and 2) to cascade environmental technologies into the design process. A Life Cycle Analysis was completed to identify new technologies or processes for cost reduction.This paper describes the development and use of a methodology which combines two modeling approaches for the purpose of evaluating the impacts created by new materials in electronic products. This technique utilizes Abridged Lifecycle Assessment (ALCA) thinking combined with a computer-based Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) tool. Through this approach, an abridged lifecycle analysis can be integrated with company-specific attitudes and preferences on the importance of each life stage in the ALCA. The result is a useful and justifiable evaluation of new materials proposed for incorporation into a product or process. Rather than offering a definitive answer for deciding between materials, the tool offers decision makers additional assistance in identifying and evaluating conflicting objectives. Examples of applications are provided.Environmental awareness in industry is not longer focused on technological and economical aspects alone, and ecology is becoming a factor of growing importance at all stages of a product life cycle. To understand the ecological weak points in a life cycle of a product and to compare solutions to ensure the improvements In each stage of the life cycle a systematic method is needed to quantify all environmental impacts. Life Cycle Assessment performs the capability to quantify the environmental performance of a products. The output of LCAs, the ecoprofiles serve as ct starting point for product and process improvements through scenario and weak point analysis. This paper will show the application of LCA to a telecommunication product (pager). In section one the methodology of LCA and some product i
nformation are shown In section two details of the LCA project and findings ape described. In the conclusion an outlook on most important needs to improve LCAs in electronics applications.Within the framework of a research program of the Technical University of Aachen and the Forschungszentrum Julich it is intended to develop an instrument for a resource orientated analysis of material flows of metallic raw materials. The analysis of environmental impacts is an essential element regarding the ecological, economic and social dimensions of material flows. Considering the current practice of Life Cycle Assessment the ecological impact of material flows is normally figured as site independent. Assessing the inputs and outputs as they result from a detailed process chain analysis several environmental impacts may be summarised and interpreted. On the other hand there are instruments to express the risk evolving from one site in its specific environment. To achieve a balanced view of the potential impacts of the processes in their individual environment it is considered to integrate local and regional environmental properties into the inventory analysis. This integration is a refinement of the technological inventory. Based on international world wide environmental studies it can be shown, that the estimation of e.g. the potential and current land use as well as population density is suitable to characterise the environmental endowment of single locations and therefore allows the weighting of the considered environmental impacts.Transportations of people and products are fundamental in our society. When developing towards a sustainable future the use of fossile fuel must decrease due to the environmental effects from emmissions of CO2. In harmony with this the vehicles must be more efficient with lower weight and effective engines. By performing a life cycle assessment, LCA, the environmental effects are shown. In this study a comparative LCA is made for a coast guard boat. The structural materials compared are aluminium and GRP-sandwich. In this first part of the study the results from a screening LCA were raw material production, manufacturing of structure and usage are presentated.Recently, interest to environmental problem has risen, and Life cycle analysis(LCA) of recycling system in waste treatment has attracted much attention. Under the present conditions, the sludge is not necessarily treated appropriately from a point of view of environmental control. Therefore, the now of sludge in sludge treatment was modeled from a point of view of now control. Here the sewage treatment process that is a part of sewage treatment system was modeled by using the technique of system dynamics. The program for treating the now was made by using the personal computer and the system constitution that could cope with various conditions was examined. As a result, it has turned out that the system dynamics is a useful technique for obtaining the result corresponding to the change of environmental factors.Movement of business focus from a regional to a global basis is redefining how companies organize their activities. During the past 25 years, the chemical industry has been gradually moving from a focus on "end-of-pipe" treatment to source reduction, recycling, and reuse. Pollution Prevention, once viewed primarily as an environmental issue, is now becoming a
 critical business opportunity. This change is not coming easily because it requires institutional transformation in organizations where such change is difficult. The emphasis on Pollution Prevention is now broadening to include tools such as: life-cycle analysis, full-cost accounting, sustainable development, and eco-efficiency. As we look twenty years into the future, process design and optimization will incorporate more elements of the environment into the objective function that defines success. Modeling and simulation will play a key role in making these changes occur more rapidly. This paper reviews the drivers, change, and tools that can be used to accelerate this change.One of the most important steps towards the evaluation of sustainability is to define appropriate criteria. Two promising methods for such an evaluation are risk analysis and life-cycle assessment. Both these approaches need appropriate strategies for the identification of such criteria. This paper focuses on quantitative evaluations and gives examples of mathematical evaluation functions as used in life-cycle and risk assessments of a heavy-metal polluted soil. The mathematical evaluation models are presented together with their corresponding word model (i.e, their intended meaning expressed in words). Hence with limited effort mathematical evaluation functions are available which are simple, intuitive, and easy to understand and which at the same time may be used to consistently aggregate soil variables.For the Spring semester of 1998 of the Mechanical Engineering 466K Design Project class, the design team of Jeff Janert, Kevin Lo, and Craig White worked on a project sponsored by Ted Aanstoos, PE, a research engineer at The University of Texas Center for Electromechanics. The project was the reduction of energy in a notebook computer using Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) and Design For the Environment (DFE) methodologies. The project has two main components for its completion: the development of a design methodology that emphasizes environmental concerns and the generation of redesign options for a notebook computer emphasizing environmental issues. Because information on the energy used by notebook computers was not available, detailed data on a desktop computer was used because the components in both computers are of the same material and function even if they are of a different size. The desktop data is only for the manufacturing of the computer and ignores the other stages of the product lifecycle. The computer manufacturing processes were divided into the following four divisions, semiconductor devices (SD), semiconductor packaging (SP), printed wiring boards/computer assemblies (PWB/CA), and display (DIS) based on which area of the computer the process affected. The manufacturing of the PWB/CA turned out to use 1790 kWh of energy, the most any division. The PWB/CA had the highest values for waste and water use of 46lbs and 1400 gal. When these four divisions were rated for the best opportunity for energy reduction, PWB/CA was selected based on a comparison of five criteria: material use, energy use, waste, water usage, and universability, which is likelihood that any significant changes made within any of the component divisions can be applied on all computers universally. The design team developed a methodology that includes an emphasis on environmental issues b
y placing it as one of three major groups representing customer needs. The other two customer needs groups are non-environmental regulations and physical requirements. These three customer needs groups feed into the design of a new product equally and concurrently, making sure that the proper importance is place on what the customers feel are the important customer needs. The newly designed product is then checked to make sure it meets the product standards set by the customer needs. If it does, then the product is ready for production, if not, it is redesigned until it meets the needs. The methodology is used with the Customer Focused Redesign Flow Chart (CFRFC), which provides quantifiable data as a benchmark to base design changes on. Numerous designs were generated to reduce the energy of the team's notebook computer.Undertaking transportation projects involve high initial investments and considerable commitments of operation and maintenance funds to be disbursed over the useful life of considered projects. This paper presents the parameters that need to be considered in modeling the life-cycle of such projects. Life-cycle models and analyses are tools necessary for the feasibility assessment of projects that are desired or deemed warranted by highway agencies. As a feasibility assessment study is normally threefold: technical, economic, and environmental, the paper mainly emphasizes the economic aspects which inherently reflects the consequences of technical decisions and environmental constraints. In addition, the implications of type of finance and form of organizations entrusted with the construction, operation, and maintenance of implemented projects are addressed. A general, life-cycle based approach is presented, which illustrates the structure of the analysis process.This paper presents the preliminary results of a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study comparing different wastewater treatment works, operated by Thames Water Utilities Ltd. in the UK. Fifteen works have been studied, representing a range of size and type of treatment works. Five management regimes for centralising sludge treatment and disposal were analyzed in the context of LCA to provide guidance on choosing the best practicable environmental option (BPEO). Consideration of Global warming potential indicates that the four proposed management regimes with centralisation of sludge for treatment and disposal, as adopted by Thames Water Utilities Ltd., is an environmental improvement upon the current practice. One of these options, that of complete centralisation and composting of sludge prior to disposal, exerts the least environmental impact with respect to Global warming potential. This suggests that the adoption of composting at Crawley is environmentally preferable to increasing the digestion facility at this works. (C) 1998 IAWQ. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In May 1996 an International Task Group was established to gather information from different countries about the current criteria used for the design and construction of membrane roofs, that minimise harm to the environment. This paper sets out the views of some specifiers on the issue of sustainability in construction, and goes on to give current definitions. The importance of the whole life cycle is discussed and a cradle-to-grave model included. It is recognised that the issues a
re complex and involve inter-relationships which are not well understood and are in need of further research. For example, how are the various sets of environmental data weighted for a given roofing system on a specific project? Previous studies into the performance of membrane roofs have reached practical conclusions on individual issues, although the designer or contractor is now looking for balanced guidance on wider environmental issues. The Task Group has suggested that it would be helpful to bring together the key points of best practice in a single page document, and this paper concludes with a set of common principles or 'tenets of sustainable roofing' which are offered for public comment.Recycling plays a major role in the total life-cycle of roof systems. Calculations show that roof systems that are recyclable to a high extent, score very positive compared to roof systems that are not very suitable for recycling. In this paper different types of waste treatment are distinguished, because of the great differences that exist. For the simulations a computer-model named SimaPro was used, using the world-wide accepted method developed by CML (Centre for the Environment, Leiden, the Netherlands). With this model different life-cycle scenarios were studied and evaluated. From the undertaken studies it becomes clear that PVC and APP roof coverings do not differ largely in environmental impact, also due to the fact that the relatively heavy steel substructure is of more importance. The differences between APP and PVC are negligible. However, the differences between high and low recycling ratio scenarios are substantial. Bottle-neck in this field of study is estimating average recycling and re-use percentages of the total flow of material waste in the building sector and collecting reliable process data. Another problem within LCA studies is estimating the reliability of the input data and modelling uncertainties. Research on the human dimensions of global change typically examines the vulnerability of sociotechnical systems to anticipated environmental stresses, most often in non-urban settings. This paper takes a somewhat different track; first it argues that urban areas should receive high priority in global change research and second, it highlights an expanded view of "urban metabolism" as a neglected set of variables that mediate between environmental hazards and human responses. Other researchers have defined "urban metabolism" as the production and consumption of natural resources and physical environments by cities (Stren, White, and Whitney, 1992 [16, p. 9]). In the brief overview that is presented here the term has broader connotations; it includes various means - social as well as biophysical - by which cities acquire or lose the capacity for sustainability in the face of diverse and competing problems. Chief among these is the process by which opportunities for reducing natural disasters are increased or decreased as a result of interactions among different urban issues.Nowadays, urban and infrastructure planning do usually not intensively communicate. But for solving future challenges only joint actions will be the adequate response. Thus, one has to think of means to increase interaction among the different planning participants. Energy tasks aim at the analysis of the actual urban system, development and implementation of a
n integrated energy, telecommunications and water infrastructure as well as the optimized use of renewable energies. Nevertheless, on national or EU level there has to be a framework, which basically defines ecological assessment and taxation of the different forms of energy in order to be able to use market mechanisms on urban level. For achieving sustainable systems on the field of energy, there are three major tasks: Improving overall efficiency, closing cycles and feeding in renewable sources. A urban system is a very complex organism, which consists of many civilisatoric units, such as households, trades, offices, industries etc. These units could be seen as metabolic systems, which are fed by products and services while spilling out solid waste, waste energy and waste water. This is a typical end-of-pipe situation, with all its disadvantages according to environment as well as national economy. In fact, a even worse picture comes up, if one looks at these civilisatoric units under exergetic aspects. To substantially convert the urban system to a sustainable organism the different civilisatoric units and their interactions have to be analysed from bottom up. Later on, this will lead to innovative solutions which will become even more important in the future. The concept is, that with a metabolic view, which is originally neither an urban planning nor a technical approach, communication can be improved and doors be opened for innovative, unconventional solutions to reach previously defined environmental goals. In fact, the implementation of the concept of urban metabolism on a GIS basis, i.e. a graphical display of these complex processes and interconnections, give the opportunity, that participating planners of the different disciplines get information, they are all able to understand on a similar level. This will be a huge progress compared to the current situation. The administrative goal is the close integration of urban and infrastructure planning with benefits for both sides. Introducing e.g, vacuum technology for gathering faeces instead of the conventional waste water infrastructure has consequences up to the architecture of buildings; on the other hand, me energetic standard of new buildings may have huge influence on existing or planned district heating networks. The largest potentials for improving urban systems under energy aspects is to find within establishing and interconnecting energy flows and conversion subsystems.
 This paper discusses some of the elements that may characterise an efficient strategy to adapt to a changing climate. Such a strategy will have to reflect the long time horizon of, and the prevailing uncertainties about, climate change. An intuitively appealing approach therefore seems to be to enhance the flexibility and resilience of systems to react to and cope with climate shocks and extremes, as well as to improve information. In addition, in the case of quasi-irreversible investments with a long lifetime (e.g. infrastructure investments, development of coastal zones) precautionary adjustments may be called for to increase the robustness of structures, or to increase the rate of depreciation to allow for earlier replacement. Many of these measures may already have to be considered now, and could be worthwhile in their own right, independent of climate change considerations. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Programmed selection and breeding of Actinidia in China started at end of the 70s, and can be divided into two periods. The first is from 1978 to 1990. The major objective during this time was to select elite strains and/or cultivars with big fruits (>80 g) in A. chinensis and what is now known as A. deliciosa. More than 11 cultivars and 40 strains of A. deliciosa, and more than 40 cultivars and 80 strains of A. chinensis have been named. The second period is fi om 1990 to the present. The main objective was to select and breed new cultivars and/or strains with longer fruit storage-life, better soil and climate adaptation and high productivity as well as particular horticultural characters. During this period, more than 10 cultivars of A. deliciosa, 8 of A. chinensis, 4 of A. arguta, 3 of A. eriantha, and 5 from interspecific hybridization have been obtained. In addition to pistillate cultivars, more than 10 staminate cultivars have been released. In this paper, the most important cultivars in each species and from their interspecific hybrids are briefly described, and others are tabulated. The problems of and prospects for Actinidia improvement are discussed.The wet-base moisture content (MC) in outer sapwood of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) pulpwood in different wood management programmes from the forest to the mill was studied from the point of view of three objectives: (1) the importance of rapid raw material delivery, (2) the effect of bark condition as a result of harvesting during the late dormant season and the growing season, and (3) the possibilities for retaining the pulpwood MC using climate-adapted wet storage. The reduction in MC after felling was significant in the pulpwood stored without wet storage, When not wet-stored, pulpwood with a high degree of bark damage dried out more rapidly than wood with a low degree of bark loss. In pulpwood, wet-stored in accordance with climate-adaptation, the MC remained or increased during storage. The shorter the drying time before wet storage, i.e., faster delivery to the mill, the more significant the increase in MC. The increase in MC during wet storage was more significant in pulpwood with a low degree of bark damage. Climate-adapted wet storage reduced the variation of the MC. When conducted with fresh pulpwood, i.e., drying time shorter than 4 weeks (low bark loss) or 2 weeks (high bark loss), a more homogeneous MC distribution was gained. This p
aper focuses on the desirability, from an economic perspective, of setting fixed and relatively short-term targets and timetables, such as those contained in the Kyoto Protocol, as a means of achieving longer-term climate change mitigation goals. The paper argues that whatever long-term policy goals are adopted, greater flexibility lowers implementation costs. Lower implementation costs, in turn, increases the likelihood that the policies will actually be followed and the goals achieved. Importantly, the Kyoto Protocol incorporates key elements of both "what" and "where" flexibility. That is, the "Kyoto basket" includes all six of the major greenhouse gases plus sinks, and the Protocol incorporates several mechanisms that allow emission reductions to take place at the least-cost geographic location, regardless of nation-state boundaries. The Protocol also provides substantial "how" flexibility in the sense that countries can use a variety of means to achieve domestic policy goals. However, the Protocol does not allow emission reductions to take place at a point in time when they can be achieved at lowest cost as long as they are consistent with the long-term environmental goals ("when" flexibility). Additionally, it does not allow the use of efficient price-based policy instruments to define targets and, thereby, balance environmental goals and compliance costs (which could be thought of as a broader version of "when" flexibility). instead, the Protocol relies exclusively on strict, short term quantity targets. The relative inflexibility of the Protocol with respect to the timing of reductions and definitions of the targets may derive, in part, from a misplaced analogy between the global warming issue and the highly successful effort to phase out CFCs under the Montreal Protocol. The lack of when flexibility may be a key barrier to achieving the broader goals of the Kyoto Protocol, particularly if where flexibility is constrained in the implementation process.The problematique of global climate change is usually investigated in a ceteris paribus framework, i.e., impacts and driving forces are embedded in the world as it presents itself nowadays. In parallel, however, quite a number of other phenomena of global environmental change take place: soil degradation, shortage of freshwater resources, or the massive loss of biodiversity are just a few examples. Furthermore drastic socio-economic developments take place: the globalization of economy and society, the still increasing international indebtedness, the hefty progress in information technologies and many others more. All these complexly interconnected symptoms of Global Change call for an integrated research strategy which can serve as the information and evaluation base for rough but robust global environmental management strategies. In this paper we want to present a research approach which from our point of view is capable to include most of the relevant trends and symptoms of Global Change. The approach is based on the assumption that Global Change can be decomposed into archetypical patterns of civilization-nature interactions, called syndromes of Global Change (Schellnhuber et al., 1997). Besides a general discussion of the syndrome concept we sketch some qualitative ideas how this approach can be applied to evaluate climate change mitigation strategies with respect to synergies a
nd side-effects.Published costs of climate change mitigation options have been derived using a wide range of technical and economic assumptions. This can make it difficult to compare results from different sources. To overcome this problem, the IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme uses a common basis for its studies to assess a variety of options. An important issue in any assessment of options is the timing of the costs and the carbon sequestration. It is generally accepted that costs and benefits that occur in future are worth less to society then present day costs and benefits. The rate at which future costs and benefits are discounted to the present is the subject of debate amongst economists and very different rates are used in different circumstances. Nevertheless, it is important that the same discount rate and methodology are used when comparing options. In this paper, the importance of timing and the discounting methodology is illustrated by reference to two alternative mitigation options: capturing CO2 in a power station with underground sequestration, and planting and managing forests to sequester carbon. Some results are reported from a recent study of a large-scale tropical forestry scheme, carried out for the IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme. When put on the same economic basis, the costs of the forestry sequestration scheme are found to be broadly comparable with the costs of power station CO2 capture and sequestration. Other environmental benefits, such as helping to maintain biodiversity, will count in favour of forestry sequestration but are typically not included in these calculations. With privatization, managed competition, deregulation of the power industry, and increasing environmental legislation, water utilities must aspire to more than high levels of service and reliability. They must seek competitive levels of service and reliability. To reach this goal, water providers have to balance financial considerations and consumer requirements. They must make optimal use of production processes and support systems, ultimately achieving ecoefficiency, i.e., economically efficient use of resources with other businesses. Information technology (IT) plays a key role in achieving this climate of widespread efficiency by (1) enabling the integration of computer systems, information, human resources, and natural resources; (2) defining common performance measures; and (3) optimizing performance. Three existing paradigms-the utility communications architecture, utility business architecture; and industrial ecology-can serve as structured applications for efficient IT planning and deployment at the plant, utility, and regional levels.A brief accounting is presented of the evolution of natural ecosystems and human cultures including industrialization and its ecologically-significant interactions with natural abiotic and biotic processes of the earth. These accounts show, among other things, that excess resource harvest rates and material releases into the natural environment have been ecological risks of growing scope and scale throughout the history of political economies. The growing ecological risks of industrialization are attributed to disparities between the rates and directions of evolution in the ecological features of process and structure of corporate and political economies relative to the rates and directions of evolution
 in their cultural institutions of control. Many social and political organizations are now calling for adaptations toward sustainable industrialization by promoting evolution in the cultural institutions of control through research, education, ethics, politics and government. What is required are on-line institutional processes for effectively translating emerging ecological risk assessments into economic incentives for feasible adaptations throughout the systems. Institutionalization of such on-line adaptive processes requires broad moral-ethical enlightenment and social-political commitment to make the emerging scientific, technological and economic dimensions productive (Faber et al., 1996). This paper presents on-line strategies of ecological risk assessment and control which are believed to be superior to alternatives that require a prior consensus on economic valuations of natural resource stocks, natural processes and environmental damages; and incentives have advantages over prescriptive regulations. When viewed in their greater economic context, the proposed strategies are formulated as coordinated institutions of on-line ecological and fiscal control processes on what is here defined as the ecological economies of corporate and political economies. The objective of the proposed control strategies is to pursue trajectories of joint ecological and cultural evolution toward systems that are ecologically and culturally both satisfying and sustainable. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Environmentally Conscious Manufacturing and Product Recovery (ECMPRO) has become an obligation to the environment and to the society itself, enforced primarily by governmental regulations and customer perspective on environmental issues. This is mainly driven by the escalating deterioration of the environment, e.g. diminishing raw material resources, overflowing waste sites and increasing levels of pollution. ECMPRO involves integrating environmental thinking into new product development including design, material selection, manufacturing processes and delivery of the product to the consumers, plus the end-of-life management of the product after its useful life. ECMPRO related issues have found a large following in industry and academia who aim to find solutions to the problems that arise in this newly emerged research area. Problems are widespread including the ones related to life cycle of products, disassembly, material recovery, remanufacturing and pollution prevention. In this paper, we present the development of research in ECMPRO and provide a state-of-the-art survey of published work. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology is an evocative metaphor that has evolved into a new paradigm for environmental management. It locates human activity in a larger, environmental context and uses the natural would as a model for organizing industrial activities. To date the concepts of place and jurisdiction have been missing from industrial ecology, even though many important environmental decisions are made within local political boundaries. Planners are uniquely equipped to advance this field because they (a) study locally-open systems such as economies, and(b)link big-picture ideas to incremental decisions, in return, industrial ecology offers planners an integrative framework for describing, explaining, an
d solving environmental problems.The use of the metabolism concept, expanded to include aspects of livability, is applied to cities to demonstrate the practical meaning of sustainability. Its application in industrial ecology, urban ecology, urban demonstration projects, business plans and city comparisons are used to illustrate its potential. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Nutrients in manure constitute an ecological and economic liability if managed as a waste for disposal. However nutrients are the source of economic benefit when managed as a resource. By combining economic and ecological analyses, the ecological benefits of nutrients in manure are conserved, their economic value is captured, and both ecological and economic goals can be met. We derived a simple model to define the conditions required for manure to be recycled effectively and transported economically The basic premise of the model is that ecological and economic considerations must be in balance at steady state for manure nutrient management to be sustainable. The model combines the cost of processing and transportation, the value of the crop yield response to the manure product and the steady state capacity of the land to recycle macronutrients. The model predicts that processing, to increase macronutrient content or to decrease unit transportation cost, and use of manure products on high value crops could permit break-even distribution distances for same manure products of more than 300 km. We then used estimates of manure and crop production in Alberta to calculate municipal N and P balances to determine the distance of distribution required to use manure effectively (municipality as used here is analogous to county in many parts of the world). In 1991, municipalities with manure nutrients in excess of that harvested as grain were adjacent to municipalities with nutrient deficits. We conclude that (1) equating ecological and economic aspects of manure distribution is feasible and may enhance the profitability of agriculture, and (2) improved effectiveness in the use of manure resources may be achieved by nutrient conservation and harvesting, processing to increase nutrient retention and reduce transport costs, and application technologies to increase crop response to nutrients in manure products.Businesses can Improve operations by capitalizing on the collective knowledge of their human resources.The molecular-mass distribution of polymer fragments in lanthanum oxide hydroxide (LOH) gels was determined. Quasi-steady states of the gels with solutions of their salts were studied. Derivative thermoanalytical curves for gel samples were recorded. A periodicity in morphologic (shape-forming) and sorptive properties of La(2)O(3) center dot kH(2)O gels was observed as a function of the amount of the initial salt used in the synthesis and the quasi-steady-state pH value. It was established that gels in contact with solutions of their salts acquire steady states due to an interplay of sorption and peptization processes. A mechanism was proposed for these phenomena.Prediction of end-of-life strategies early in design leads to improved eco-efficient product and processes. This paper describes the development of an internet-based tool, End-of-Life Design Advisor (ELDA), that guides product developers to specify appropriate end-of-life strategies. The study b
egan with surveys of end-of-life strategies currently used in the electronics industry that identified key product characteristics that influence end-of-life strategies. The survey led to a scheme for identifying suitable product end-of-life strategies early in the design cycle of a broad range of products. The end-of-life strategy categorization in ELDA is a result of statistical analysis applied to 12 characteristics across 20 products. The tool aids product designers, recycling technology developers, and policy makers.Emphasizing global environmental issues in classes presents students with powerful, comparative perspectives on controversial issues. Yet, students cannot make critical judgments without first understanding the structure of critical reasoning. The logic of argument forms used to make critical judgments is a necessary tool that may be conveyed through an interactive classroom-activity, drawing on discipline-specific examples that reinforce the content of a course. Two argument forms-convergent reasoning and inference to the bed explanation-are described, with instructions for an interactive activity. Examples are drawn from issues of industrial ecology and the human dimensions-of global change.In studying complex systems such as an organization, a system of industries, or a natural ecosystem, models are developed to enhance the amount and quality of information that a decision-maker can obtain. Due to the complexity of such systems, the simulation models include approximations of the real world. In this paper. system dynamics is used to model the dow and accumulation of matter, information, and energy in a system of industries in Kalundborg, Denmark. This model is utilized in the analysis and improvement of the Kalundborg system with a response surface-based concept exploration process in which the degree of approximation present in the simulation model is acknowledged and handled. Instead of directly using response surfaces to make decisions, the information embodied in the response surfaces is used to locate promising regions of the design space, which are then searched with the simulation model. This response surface based concept exploration process is unique in that: the final recommendations are based on the simulation model, not on an approximation of the simulation model, and by relying on the simulation model, instead of solely relying on response surfaces, design knowledge is increased without sacrificing design freedom. In this paper, the overall approach, the method, and its validation, as opposed to results particular to the case study, are of primary importance.Industrial ecology is the objective, multidisciplinary study of industrial and economic systems and their linkages with fundamental natural systems, the "science and engineering of sustainability." It provides the science and technology base for a sustainable economy, when combined with appropriate evolution of ethical and institutional systems. Design for Environment (DFE) is one means by which the principles of industrial ecology can be implemented today, within the overall perspective of a global economy that is increasingly service-oriented. Examples of such technologies might include Internet central sewer, biotechnology, and the modern automobile.As the next millennium approaches, effective product stewardship strategies require that computer man
ufacturers put in motion industrial ecology principles of optimizing the materials life cycle from raw material to a product's final disposal. One method is aggressively embracing enterprise integration the linking of organizations, companies and communities with the goal of making environmental considerations a parr of every activity. This paper describes how IBM and the industry are responding-and must respond even further-to shifting environmental awareness around the world, the explosive growth of electronic products, technical challenges to solving global environmental problems, and regulatory challenges posed by governments around the world.Industrial ecology, to be successfully understood and implemented must be seen bath as a systems oriented concept and an ongoing process. Irs theoretical framework rests on a comprehensive search for basic principles from economy, thermodynamics and ecology, all seen within the context of sound practice. Whereas the fact remains that nothing is as practical as good theory, that theory must itself have its roots in reality, and should preferably be based on an important and worthwhile practice. Hence, industrial ecology informed strategies should be developed in close collaboration among industrial leaders and external decision-makers, specialists and planners. The present article discusses this type of framework for decision-making in relation to industrial ecology in general, and seen through the case of the extended producer responsibility principle.This paper presents the critical importance of integrating end-of-life strategies in the early states of design, i.e., product definition. We begin with an overview of research and practice on Design for Environment(DFE) in the United States. DFE has been receiving increasing attention in U.S. academia and industry, but the level of implementation remains low compared To Europe or Japan. The survey starts with a broad perspective on Industrial Ecology and proceeds to recyclability. The paper concludes with our recent research on incorporating end-of-life strategies into the product definition..Photovoltaics (PV) technology has definite environmental advantages over competing electricity generation technologies, and so far these advantages have driven market penetration. The PV industry follows a pro-active approach to present its safe and environmentally friendly nature. Industrial ecology considerations raise the issue of what to do with the PV modules at the end of their useful tife. One option is recycling. This paper discusses the value of proactive recycling and compares several alternatives.Traditional applications of exergy analysis have focused upon the optimization of energy use in thermal and chemical processes. This paper introduces a form of exergy analysis in which the methodology is extended to consider the characteristics of material flows in a process as well. This new form of analysis, termed extended exergy analysis (EEA), is shown to be particularly useful in valuating the environmental performance of industrial processes. EEA differs from traditional theory in its requirement that all ground states be defined such that they are environmentally acceptable. Environmental acceptability can be determined using a number of health, occupational and ecological criteria. By integrating biological considerations into the existing physical
 definition, EEA provides manufacturers and regulators alike with relevant information regarding the costs of achieving environmentally benign production. These costs are valued consistently for both raw material and energy inputs and product and residual outputs, affording degrees of transparency and objectivity not present in other valuation methodologies. Application of the technique to a case study involving the machining of aluminium is developed.The role of copper in the economy will not diminish in the 21(st) century, Following the tenets of industrial ecology, production and use of copper must take into account both human needs and also how to minimize "collateral" effects on the environment. Dispersive uses will be phased out and post-use recovery of copper will increase. This will result into an advantage for smelting processes that can accommodate mixed metal scrap and waste streams. The bath smelting processes of Noranda and Mitsubishi will continue to make progress but the dominance of the Outokumpu flash smelting will not be challenged until the Noranda reactor overcomes the obstacles to the direct production of copper, thus eliminating the need for a converter.Industrial ecology (IE) is a biological concept applied to industrial structures. The basic concepts of IE include regional, intra-firm and product-based waste recycling systems as well as the principle of upward and downward cascading. In best current examples of regional systems, several parties are in an industrial waste re-use symbiosis. Paper industry has learned to arrange the recovery and re-use of its products on distant markets, even up to a level where indications df exceeding optimal recovery and re-use rates already exist through deteriorated fibre and product quality. Such occurrences will take place in certain legislative-economic situations. Paper industry has many cascade levels, each with their internal recovery and recycling, as well as many intra-firm, regional, and life cycle ecology structures. As an example of prospects for individual cascading routes, sludges may continue to be incinerated, but the route to landfills will be closed. The main obstacles of legislative drive toward better IE systems are in many cases existing laws and political considerations rather than economic or technical aspects. The study and practice of engineering human technology systems and related elements of natural systems should develop in such a way that they provide quality of life by actively managing the dynamics of relevant systems to reduce the risk and scale of undesirable behavior and outcomes. For the paper industry, earth systems engineering offers several development routes. One of them is the further recognition of and research on the fact that the products of the industry are returned back to the carbon cycle of the natural environment. Opportunities for modifying current earth systems may also be available for the industry, e.g. genetically modified plants for raw materials or organisms for making good quality pulp out of current raw materials. It is to be recognized that earth systems engineering may become a very controversial area, and that very diverse political pressures may determine its future usefulness to the paper industry. (C) 1999 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd on behalf of the IAWQ. All rights reserved. Environmental aspects are playing a
n increasingly important role in the development of new products. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a tool for the ecological assessment of products. Within this method the whole life cycle "from the cradle to the grave" will be analyzed and evaluated. The goal of the presented LCA was the comparison of a natural fibre-reinforced poly(propylene) under-floor panel (NMT) of a passenger car with a glass-fibre reinforced panel (GMT). The results of the study show that GMT under-floor panels have a higher contribution to all environmental effects considered in this study. That can be put down to the fact that the production of the flax-fleeces is environmentally more friendly than the production of glass-fibre mars.With the increasing importance of environmental interactions, several innovations of the environmental performance are introduced in automotive industry. One aspect of innovation is an environmental material selection including renewable raw materials. Products of renewable raw materials are generally regarded as environmentally friendly, including products from hemp, jute and flax. The ecological preferences of products of natural fibres can be investigated and described by means of ecological balances. However, no general principles for the ecological advantages or disadvantages of fibre plants can be deducted from their life cycle assessment, since the ecological compatibility of the different products strongly depends on the circumstances of the journey of life of the product. The objective of this study is a decision support of automotive engineers by giving an ecological balance of the benefits of substituting ABS by hemp fibres for covering applications. A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of hemp fibre reinforced components is introduced. This study contains the agricultural cultivation of fibre plants, the method of harvesting and the processing of the harvested crops. Finally, the analysis includes the further processing of the fibre, starting from the manufacturing of the fibre composite matrix, on which the production of form press components for the automotive industry bases. The differences of energy demand and emissions amount during the use phase of a passenger car as well as different recycling scenarios are assessed.One of the main potential uses of life cycle assessment (LCA) in environmental management is for identifying options for environmental improvements of a system in which complete supply chains are considered. The main problem, however, lies in finding the optimum improvement strategies and choosing the best alternative in a decision environment with multiple, and often conflicting, objectives. To aid the decision-making process, this paper proposes the use of multiobjective optimisation (MO), whereby the system is simultaneously optimised on a number of environmental objective functions, defined and quantified through the LCA approach. This results in a Pareto or noninferior surface, with a range of environmental optima, from which the best compromise solution for improving the environmental performance of the system can be chosen. However, system improvements cannot be based solely on environmental considerations and other factors, including socio-economic, must be considered in parallel. This paper also shows that MO coupled with LCA provides a powerful tool for balancing environmental and economic performance,
 thus enabling the choice of best practicable environmental option (BPEO) and best available technique not entailing excessive cost (BATNEEC). The value of this approach in environmental system analysis lies in providing a set of alternative optimal options for system improvements rather than a single prescriptive solution, which may be optimal but not necessarily appropriate for a particular situation. A decision-aid tool-optimum LCA performance (OLCAP)-has been developed for these purposes. OLCAP is tested and demonstrated by application to a case study of an existing mineral-processing system producing boron products. It is shown that LCA can successfully be combined with optimisation techniques to satisfy both economic and environmental criteria for more sustainable performance of the product system over the whole life cycle. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an analytic tool for quantifying the environmental impacts of all processes used in converting raw materials into a final product. The LCA consists of three parts. Life cycle inventory quantifies all material and energy use, and environmental emissions for the entire product life cycle, while impact assessment evaluates actual and potential environmental and human health consequences of the activities identified in the inventory phase. Most importantly, life cycle improvement aims at reducing the risk of these consequences occurring to make the product more benign. When the LCA is performed in conjunction with a technoeconomic analysis, the total economic and environmental benefits and shortcomings of a product or process can be quantified. A methodology has been developed incorporating process performance, economics, and life cycle inventory data to synthesize process systems, which meet life cycle impact-improvement targets at least cost. The method relies on a systematic description of the product life cycle and utilizes successive Linear Programming to formulate and optimize the non-linear, constrained problem which results. The practicality and power of this approach have been demonstrated by examining options for the reduction of emissions of the greenhouse gas CO2 from petroleum-based fuels.The human toxicity potential, a weighting scheme used to evaluate toxic emissions for life cycle assessment and toxics release inventories, is based on potential dose calculations and toxicity factors. This paper evaluates the variance in potential dose calculations that can be attributed to the uncertainty in chemical-specific input parameters as well as the variability in exposure factors and landscape parameters. A knowledge of the uncertainty allows us to assess the robustness of a decision based on the toxicity potential; a knowledge of the sources of uncertainty allows us to focus our resources if we want to reduce the uncertainty. The potential dose of 236 chemicals was assessed. The chemicals were grouped by dominant exposure route, and a Monte Carlo analysis was conducted for one representative chemical in each group. The variance is typically one to two orders of magnitude. For comparison, the point estimates in potential dose for 236 chemicals span ten orders of magnitude. Most of the variance in the potential dose is due to chemical-specific input parameters, especially half-lives, although exposure factors such as fish intake 
and the source of drinking water can be important for chemicals whose dominant exposure is through indirect routes, Landscape characteristics are generally of minor importance.The paper describes the priority given to licensing in the control of waste management in the UK. It outlines both the historical and present day impact of EU legislation on UK practices and explains potential problems and benefits resulting from the implementation of the EU landfill directive. Basic waste data is given and some of the key factors underpinning waste regulation are delineated primarily sustainable development - but also land-use planning, groundwater protection and global climate change. The paper concludes by profiling the UK's lifecycle programme for waste management and its intended uses.Encouragement of innovation is a major reason for using the performance concept in construction regulations and specifications, mostly in the context of design-build contracts. Performance criteria aiming at sustainability emphasize long term behaviour of built facilities, which complicates the measurement of compliance. Strategies for identifying areas with strong promises of innovative technologies should be developed, so as to concentrate the efforts in developing performance requirements. The development of standardized consensus methods and procedures should be accelerated. Finally, it is suggested that good examples of how performance requirements can be expressed and monitored should be made globally available.Research undertaken in the development of basic approaches for and dissemination of information on the design, maintenance, reuse or renewal and assessment of materials and technologies for sustainable construction were the focus of Symposium A at the 1998 CIB Gavle Conference. Contributions have been prepared within four areas including: (i) performance, durability and service life, (ii) information technologies, (iii) Life cycle analysis and maintenance management and (iv) environmental technologies and processes. A summary of the more significant contributions within these specific areas is provided.The Building for Environmental and Economic Sustainability (BEES) tool implements a rational, systematic technique for selecting cost-effective green building products. The technique is based on consensus standards and designed to be practical, flexible, and transparent. The Windows-based decision support software, aimed at designers, builders, and product manufacturers, includes actual environmental and economic performance data for 24 building products across a range of functional applications. BEES measures the environmental performance of building products using the environmental Life-cycle assessment approach specified in the latest versions of ISO 14000 draft standards. The approach is based on the belief that all stages in the Life of a product generate environmental impacts and must be analyzed. The stages include raw material acquisition, manufacture, transportation, installation, use, and waste management. Economic performance is measured using the ASTM standard life-cycle cost method. The technique includes the costs over a given study period of initial investment, replacement, operation, maintenance and repair, and disposal. Environmental and economic performance are combined into an overall performance measure using the ASTM standard for mu
ltiattribute decision analysis.This article compares the social costs of electric vehicles with those of conventional, thermal vehicles for typical passenger use in the Ile-de-France region (Greater Paris), a case of particular interest because nearly 80% of the electricity is generated by nuclear power plants. A four-seat electric car is compared to a new conventional car of the same make and model; for the latter both the gasoline and the diesel version are considered because almost half of new car sales in France are diesel. These results are also compared to typical existing diesel and gasoline vehicles in the current French fleet. The methodology developed by the ExternE (External Costs of Energy) Project of the European Commission is used to estimate the costs associated with atmospheric pollution due to power plants, refineries and tail pipe emissions. Our discussion of externalities is limited to air pollution thus excluding others such as costs associated with noise or accidents. Our results imply that the external costs are large and significant, even when one considers the uncertainties. If internalized by government regulations, these externalities can render the total cost of an electric vehicle more competitive with that of currently available thermal vehicles in large urban centers if the electricity is produced by sources with low pollution. However, the current generation electric vehicles are so expensive that internalization of pollution damage would not give it a very clear advantage. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Throughout the 1990s a significant change in the perception of environmental problems has been taking place. This has led to a whole environment and whole life-cycle perspective. The paper reviews the current state of development of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and presents examples, from the authors' case studies on timber products to illustrate how the technique addresses and highlights several problems in environmental impact assessment. The particular case of painted timber window frames is discussed.DIN EN ISO 9001, Community eco-management and audit scheme, DIN EN ISO 14001 and SCC are only some of the rules that the companies of the paper industry actually have to deal with. With a focus on their individual protection objectives - the product, the environment, the employees - all these rules persecute a common goal in principle: to create a management system for a better coping with the requirements. Especially the partly negative experiences made with quality management put an extra burden on this matter of concern. This may be the reason for the fact, that the opportunities of management systems are often disregarded. Today more than ever planned and structured procedures are imperative within the companies, regarding the amount of national and international - especially European - regulations. It is decisive for the contribution of management systems to the success of the company that they are "alive" throughout all levels of hierarchy. This especially requires an integral view of the real procedures within the company, Involving all managers and employees. A management system according to a "textbook" is just as little meaningful as an "artificial" separation of quality assurance, environmental protection and occupational safety. Also the valuation of single products within the 
context of life cycle assessment or the contemplation of a limited number of environmental aspects for an environmental label are only suitable in promoting the required integral view but not to replace it.Global environmental management is a critically important issue for the business development towards the 21st century. The focus of effort of recovery and recycling of both industrial material of pre-consumer solid waste and post-consumer solid waste has become more import-ant in recent years. As a case study, the current problem of recycling of PET bottles business in Japan is reviewed. In order to maximize productivity of global environment, the closed system, of recycling materials should be re-evaluated and established as new social and industrial systems. Global environmental productivity is defined as the ratio of total output to total consumption of materials and energy. Concepts such as 'Seaborg's Closed System' and 'Reverse Factories' should be considered if environmental productivity is to be maximized. To encourage a large marker for recovered material, a growing buy recycled movement has emerged. The environmental soundness of products can be enhanced through Total Quality Management (TQM). The environmental recycle laws enacted in 1997-99 in Japan is reviewed to produce plastic packages, which contain post-consumer recycled materials with the required price, performance and quality. (C) 1999 Society of Chemical Industry.A full Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been developed for a case study of the car tyre. The results have been compared with those obtained by applying to the same case different LCA streamlining methods in order to understand the differences. The principle of "reliability", which is the necessary condition of the streamlining methods, is evaluated for the specific case of the car tyre. Moreover some aspects of the methodology whose elaboration in one way or another can lead to drastic changes in the results are identified. In particular, space and time aspects are discussed and options for their assessment are briefly described.Environmentally Conscious Manufacturing and Product Recovery (ECMPRO) has become an obligation to the environment and to the society itself, enforced primarily by governmental regulations and customer perspective on environmental issues. This is mainly driven by the escalating deterioration of the environment, e.g. diminishing raw material resources, overflowing waste sites and increasing levels of pollution. ECMPRO involves integrating environmental thinking into new product development including design, material selection, manufacturing processes and delivery of the product to the consumers, plus the end-of-life management of the product after its useful life. ECMPRO related issues have found a large following in industry and academia who aim to find solutions to the problems that arise in this newly emerged research area. Problems are widespread including the ones related to life cycle of products, disassembly, material recovery, remanufacturing and pollution prevention. In this paper, we present the development of research in ECMPRO and provide a state-of-the-art survey of published work. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The environmental impact of electric power production through an Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) fired by dedicated energy crops (
poplar Short Rotation Forestry (SRF)) is analysed by a Life Cycle Assessment approach, The results are compared with the alternative option of producing power by conventional fossil fueled power plants, The energy and raw materials consumption and polluting emissions data both come from experimental cases. Thermodynamic models are applied for simulation of the energy conversion system. The results establish relative proportions for both consumption and emissions of the two energy systems, in detail. Considerable differences emerge about the environmental impact caused by the different gasification conditions. The evaluation of the environmental effects of residues of the pesticides in ground/surface water and in the soil required a particular care, as well as the characterisation of all chemicals (herbicides, fungicides and insecticides) used for the crops. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Ten case study businesses were assessed in relation to sixteen criteria in order to test the application of an hypothesised life cycle. Analysis of stakeholder aspirations for each of these ten businesses was also undertaken. On the basis of the empirical evidence, it was demonstrated that stakeholder groups favour diverse goals, that the level of goal coherence between major stakeholder groups declines as a co-op progresses through the co-operative rife cycle and that in the later stages of the life cycle, the aspirations of the managers, rather than those of the farmers, are realised. Furthermore, the managers' preferred goals are reflected in the organisational and financial structures and trading practices of individual late stage businesses, which are more akin to investor oriented firms than traditional co-operatives.A combination of life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) was used to evaluate and compare the relative environmental impacts and socio-economic costs of several products, made from either rapeseed oil or mineral oil in the UK. The chainsaw bar oil case study is used to demonstrate the methodologies used and results obtained. Chainsaw bar oil is a total-loss oil, and has considerable potential for substitution of the conventional base oil (mineral oil) with rapeseed oil. Results are presented from LCA impact assessments of the mineral oil and rapeseed oil chainsaw lubricants Several scenarios were compared using different co-product allocation and alternative land-use assumptions. Global warming potential (GWP) impacts were lower for rapeseed chainsaw oil, in ail scenarios, than for the mineral oil product. Other environmental impacts illustrated that both assumptions (i.e. whether to examine the total or marginal impacts) and allocation can strongly influence conclusions. The most realistic scenario for rapeseed oil was considered to be 70% allocation of burdens to the oil, with winter wheat impacts subtracted from those of oilseed rape. With this scenario, ail environmental impacts considered for chainsaw lubricants were lower for rapeseed oil. Monetary valuation of impacts through CBA varied, depending on the valuation system used, but in general rapeseed oil chainsaw lubricant had lower costs than the mineral oil product. Allocating some of the environmental burdens of crop production and crushing to rapeseed meal, and consideration of marginal impacts relative to alternative land uses increase
d the apparent environmental benefits of rapeseed oil chainsaw lubricant. Combination of ICA and CBA will require further development but affords new opportunities for socio-economic interpretation of environmental aspects.in the last past years, life Cycle Assessment has acquired a broader extent. ICA is now a method whose methodological frame is set by international standards. This does not mean that things will not evolve in the future, which is in particularly the case for the calculation of environmental impact indicators, such as toxicity and ecotoxicity indicators. Whereas ICA is still mainly carried out by consultants, more and more industries perform their own studies or update previous ones, thanks to dedicated LCA softwares. ICA may be used to fulfil several objectives. This paper describes one of them: the comparison of different ends-of life for a given product, used oils. Derived from LCA, environmentally friendly conception is an innovative and promising approach aiming at taking into account environmental criteria as soon as the product design phase. The key ideas of this design for environment approach are introduced through a brief presentation of the software EIME(TM) developed by Ecobilan.The current position on the environmental advantages offered by returnable versus one-way glass packages is discussed The energy needs of both options are considered as important parameters. A critical concept in the published LCA studies is the breakage rate, which serves to estimate the number (n) of returns that a functional unit of bottles can perform. Normally the energy of production of the glass (E) is divided by n. The authors consider this concept too theoretical and for long-term situations demonstrate that, in all LCA calculations, an energy value equal to 2E/n should be used This value is useful in calculating the break-even point. The paper summarizes the effect of different breakage rates and distribution distances on the break-even point. It is clear that, for breakage rates below 5%, returnable glass bottles remain competitive and advantageous, even for quite long distribution distances. The methology proposed should be applicable to other materials. Copyright (C) 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is essentially a material and energy balance over a system with some of the inputs and outputs used to assess the environmental impact of the system. Municipal waste life cycle assessment Part 1, and aluminium case study(1), by the same authors, described a method for Life Cycle Assessment of the base materials, for example aluminium or glass, in municipal waste. The aim of the method is to provide quantitative guidance, based upon environmental impact, for choosing the 'best' waste management option for a material and, in particular, to show whether it should be recycled. The focus on base materials differentiates the method from the usual LCA of a single product or group of products, which are formed from base material(s). The method quantifies environmental impacts from all stages in the life of materials, from production from raw materials to final disposal and includes impacts apportioned from supporting activity, such as electricity generation. This paper extends the method to include the environmental impact due to collecting material for recycling. The model estimates the distances travelled by c
onsumers bringing 'recyclables' to collection sites and by vehicles collecting recycled material from these sites for delivery to transfer stations (local transport). Long distance haulage from the transfer stations to the material production plant is also included in the model. The method is applied to glass and it is found that the specific fuel usage per kg recycled material for consumer transport decreases with increasing material recovery rate. Specific fuel usage is almost constant for local transport over the range of practical recovery rates (10-85%) but at very low or high recovery rates it rises dramatically. Even at low recycling site densities and hence recovery rates, the fuel consumption due to recycling is not as high as other estimates. Recycling glass produces a reduction of 30+% in environmental loads, that is the totals of the impacts with a common effect. However, the extra loads due to collection reduce these savings by 3-5%. The savings against incineration are always greater than against landfill, because glass is non-combustible. The energy saved by recycling glass reaches a maximum of 4 MJ per kg of produced glass at a recovery rate of 83%. However, a practical rate might be between 65 and 72%, corresponding to site densities of 10-15 per 10,000 people, yielding savings of 3.3-3.7 MJ per kg produced glass.A comparison study on the various waste management scenarios of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles has been carried out using the life-cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. The energy and material balances were set up to account for all the energy consumed and the emissions released by each stage of the production and waste management phases of the life-cycle of the PET bottles, and then a mathematical model was derived to illustrate these energy and emissions for the-various waste management pathways. For the collection process of the bottles, a nonlinear functional relationship was chosen and included in the model. Using the developed model, the environmental burdens of various waste management alternatives were evaluated to yield a ready comparison of each pathway. We can also easily discern through parameter analysis which waste management scenario is deemed best having the least energy consumed and the smallest emissions released with respect to the environmental burdens in question. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This paper reports on experiences from the Swedish participation in Green Building Challenge '98 and ongoing similar work in Sweden. It argues against very simplified environmental assessment methods and recommends, as far as possible, calculation of environmental effects caused by buildings during their life cycle. participation in the development of the GBC tool provided a broad view of the issues, clarified different opinions in a new field and provided additional stimulation while developing our national assessment methodology, EcoEffect. The environmental assessment of buildings is discussed in relation to the strength and weaknesses of the GBC system. The design and characteristics of 'green buildings' in Sweden is addressed, including ten poster presentations and two case studies presented at GBC '98.The construction and property sector has seen the development of a number of methods for evaluating the 'greenness' of buildings in the 1990s - both for new designs and e
xisting buildings, These range from very detailed life cycle assessment methods, which account for all the embodied and operational environmental impacts of building materials, to higher level environmental impact assessment methods, which evaluate the broader implications of the building's impact on the environment. In between these two are environmental assessment methods such as BREEAM, BEPAC, LEED, and GBA. In this paper, we discuss the potential market applications of these systems and compare and contrast several of the major environmental assessment methods.The objectives and achievements of the international Green Building Challenge project are analysed. GBC is situated within the context of other international environmental methods. The differences between assessment tools, design tools, environmental management and audit tools and the large data problems entailed by these are discussed. Possible development scenarios for extending GBC into Life Cycle Assessment methodology, into other life cycle phases (maintenance and refurbishment) and adapting GBC for use with the existing building stocks are proposed. The notion of 'green' buildings is replaced by a larger concept of sustainable development. New aggregation principles and scaleable design methods are proposed. Finally, the question of how relevant the proposed targets of GBC are in relation to the longterm sustainable development of buildings, building stock and urban environments is addressed.Environmental concerns have raised public awareness of environmental issues and are driving forces for regulation; The impact of regulation on the cost of production is expected to become important in determining the international competitiveness of the US chemical industry. In response to cost pressures, industry has launched a number of initiatives aimed at improving efficiency and reducing environmental impact. Some of these environmental success stories are receiving increased national attention due to programs such as the Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Awards Program. In addition to traditional metrics for evaluating process performance, such as productivity, environmental considerations increasingly are important in process development. Chemical processes evolve through life cycle phases, beginning with research, and then moving to process engineering, plant operation, and eventually, decommissioning. The number of technology options available for reducing environmental impact are highest early on in the life cycle and then decrease drastically. In contrast, costs associated with resolving an environmental problem typically increase exponentially as the process matures and the scale of equipment gets larger. There is, therefore, a considerable incentive to address and resolve environmental issues early in the life cycle. Chemical reactions responsible for producing high value-;added products are, in most cases, also responsible for generating by-products and pollutants. New chemical and biochemical approaches are providing new reaction concepts. As in the development of traditional chemical and petrochemical processes, reaction engineering, broadly defined as the field that quantifies the engineering aspects of chemically reactive systems, is providing enabling tools that accelerate the development of environmentally friendly processes. Core reaction engineering methods a
re being utilized for kinetic modeling, reactor selection, scale-up, and design. Meanwhile, the research frontiers are providing new reaction engineering tools,from computational chemistry to probe the nature of catalytic active sites to computational fluid dynamics modeling for designing the internals of reaction-separation systems. The long-term goal is to develop processes having 100% raw materials utilization, or zero waste. The near-term strategy for controlling emissions is to institute pollution prevention programs and install cost-effective end-of-pipe technologies. These technologies typically control generic classes of air pollutant emissions such as carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxides (NO(x)) and sulfur oxides (SO(x)). Technologies for treating wastewater are also available. Over time, a shift in focus is expected, from mere compliance to a point where environmentalism, like safety, is fully integrated into the corporate culture. The present paper discusses the role of reaction engineering in the development of environmentally-friendly processes. Select examples of processes, from the author's experience, that benefit from reaction engineering will be presented. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Whether in the public or private sector, facility maintenance and repair is less tangible, less glamorous, and less immediate than many other uses of an organization's limited resources. The engineers who manage and operate large physical plants must be vigilant as they compete in the annual budget allocation process. This paper, the first of two in a series, reports on the variety and relative acceptance of methodologies for estimating facility maintenance and repair funding requirements. Four bases are outlined for budget-level estimating: (1) The physical plant's initial cost or replacement value; (2) formulas grounded in other quantifiable attributes of the plant, (3) life-cycle analysis of each facility's systems and components; and (4) assessment of the facility's current or projected physical condition. Most importantly, a description and comparison of 18 available maintenance and repair budgeting models is provided. Each description includes an explanation of the mechanisms through which the model functions, the degree to which each estimating basis is applied within the model's construct, and any limitations to the model's implementation by a prospective user.The environmental impact of both the vanadium redox battery (vanadium battery) and the lead-acid battery for use in stationary applications has been evaluated using a life cycle assessment approach. In this Study, the calculated environmental impact was lower for the vanadium battery than for the lead-acid one. The net energy storage efficiency of the vanadium battery was greater due to lower primary energy needs during the life cycle. Favourable characteristics such as long cycle-life, good availability of resources and recycling ability justify the development and commercialisation of the vanadium battery. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science S.A. All rights reserved.Automobile transportation is one of the predominant sources of air pollution, producing CO2, NOx, and SOx. The weight reduction of automobiles is essential for reducing the environmental burden during their life cycle. High-tension steel, aluminum alloy and resin are can
didates for such purpose. However, substituting aluminum for steel is not always beneficial with respect to reducing the burden on the environment, because the energy consumption during aluminum production is considerably greater than that for steel. A generalized equation has been derived to describe the relationship between the driving distance, weight reduction, materials production route, and change in environmental performance. In particular, the effect of the difference of electricity source for aluminum smelting on life cycle CO2, NOx, and SOx, by substituting aluminum for steel in automobile parts, is discussed. The reduction of CO2 emission can be expected for all cases, if 50% of mass reduction is made. On the other hand, aluminum produced by the uncontrolled coal fire power is not capable of reducing NOx emission. It is also suggested that a reduction of SOx emission can only be obtained when using very clean aluminum.Adverse environmental impact, a consequence of the ever-increasing industrial activities since the Industrial Revolution, is a growing global problem. Corrective measures in the last several decades have proven insufficient and ineffective to remedy such environmental damage. To protect the world we live in, it is necessary to adopt a preventive approach to environmental pollution. In order to eliminate the problems from the very source, Environmentally Conscious Manufacturing (ECM), Design for Environment (DfE), and Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) are now being pursued, falling under the paradigm of Concurrent Engineering (CE). This has led to the need of this research to define environmental consciousness, and to analyze its design implications. Environmental decision-making at the design stage of a product is considered vital to preventing negative environmental impact. Based on concerns of all phases in the product life cycle, this research defines seven criteria to measure environmental consciousness, including recyclability, reusability, maintainability/serviceability, emissions, energy consumption, materials, and durability. It also examines their significance and implications for design. Interactions among these criteria are analyzed by classifying their relationships as positive, negative, and partially positive and negative. To further quantify the degree of environmental consciousness of product design, mathematical and graphical representation of the imprecise environmental data is exemplified.There is an increasing demand to move the radio base station closer to the antenna for future mobile telecommunication systems. This requires a significant reduction in weight and volume and increased environmental compatibility. This work provides an evaluation of environmental impact and reliability when using anisotropically conductive adhesives (ACA) for flipchip joining in radio base station applications. Conventional FR-4 substrate has been used to assemble a digital ASIC chip using an anisotropically conductive adhesive and flip-chip technology. The chip has a minimum pitch of 128 mu m with 7.8 mm in chip 8 and has in total 144 bumps with a bump size of 114 x 126 mu m(2). Bumping was made using electroless nickel/gold technology. Bonding quality has been characterized by optical and scanning electron microscopy and substrate planarity measurement. The main parameters affecting quality are misalignment and soften
ing of the FR-4 substrate during assembly, leading to high joint resistance. Reliability testing was conducted in the form of a temperature cycling test between -40 and +125 degrees C for 1000 cycles, a 125 degrees C aging test for 100 h and a 85/85 humidity test for 500 h, The results show that relatively small resistance changes were observed after the reliability test. The environmental impact evaluation was done in the form of a material content declaration and a life cycle assessment (LCA). By using flip-chip ACA joining technology, the content of environmentally risky materials has been reduced more than ten times, and the use of precious metals has been reduced more than 30 times compared to conventional surface mount technology.Systems using rain water or reducing water consumption have been recently developed as an alternative to conventional toilet hushing. This article aims to quantify the environmental impacts of these systems and to identify key factors in each system. A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been carried out to reach these goals. Scenarios with conventional water supplies present a lower energy requirement and lower environmental loads than recuperation scenarios. Sensitivity analyses indicate that recuperation is energetically favourable only when the energy required for the water supply is higher than 0.8 kWh/m(3), assuming a complex drinking water treatment. The study also reveals that low-flow toilets should be promoted as they lead to significant reductions in energy consumption and in pollutant emissions. A combination of a conventional water supply and low water consumption (scenario CONVeco) is advantageous for all environmental problems.A process for the manufacture of highly inorganically filled starch based fiber reinforced foam composites for food-packaging use is described. Starch, obtained from potato, corn, or other sources, is used as binder to form net shape foam composite substrates under hydrothermal conditions. The starch content is 25 to 60 wt. % of the product. Ground calcium carbonate is the principal inorganic material, being 25 to 60 wt. % of the product. The composite substrate is foamed by steam at temperatures between 160 degrees and 220 degrees C in a single 15 to 200 seconds step within heated molds. The organic-inorganic composite is reinforced with 5 to 20 wt. % wood or plant fiber. The substrate is rendered functional with food and beverages by thin overlay coatings that provide moisture barrier properties and additional mechanical flexibility. The product is used to package dry and wet foods and meets required food packaging standards. The substrate biodegrades rapidly in the presence of sufficient moisture or microbes. An environmental life-cycle model and an economic model are described as the additional forces to a materials model for research, development and commercialization. The primary goal of this development is to provide disposable packaging materials from renewable resources that are low in cost, low in environmental impact, and meet commercial performance requirements.Environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) developed rapidly during the 1990s and has reached a certain level of harmonisation and standardisation. LCA has mainly been developed for analysing material products, but can also be applied to services, e.g. treatment of a particular amount of solid waste. This 
paper discusses some methodological issues which come into focus when LCAs are applied to solid waste management systems. The following five issues are discussed. (1) Upstream and downstream system boundaries ies: where is the 'cradle' and where is the 'grave' in the analysed system? (2) Open-loop I recycling allocation: besides taking care of a certain amount of solid waste, many treatment processes also provide additional functions, e.g. energy or materials which are recycled into other products. Two important questions which arise are if an allocation between the different functions should be made (and if so how), or if system boundaries should be expanded to include several functions. (3) Multi-input allocation: in waste treatment processes, different materials and products are usually mixed. In many applications there is a need to allocate environmental interventions from the treatment processes to the different input materials. The question is how this should be done. (4) Time: emissions from landfills will continue for a long time. An important issue to resolve is the length of time emissions from the landfill should be considered. (5) Life cycle impact assessment : are there any aspects of solid waste systems (e.g. the time horizon) that may require specific attention for the impact assessment element of an LCA? Although the discussion centres around LCA it is expected that many of these issues are also relevant for other types of systems analyses. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Process planning in environmentally conscious machining involves a multi-objective analysis of manufacturing dimensions that include production rate, quality, process energy and mass of waste streams generated by the process. While there has been a body of work developed in life cycle analysis, one of the critical issues limiting environmental analyses is the material and geometric complexity of engineered components. In this paper a formalized approach towards integrating environmental factors in process planning is presented, which incrementally evaluates part designs through an aggregation of features. Process planning is divided into two phases, micro and macroplanning. In microplanning, process, parameters, tooling and cutting fluids are selected for the individual features, while in macroplanning interactions between features are examined. Microplanning is the focus of this paper where predictive process models are used to obtain process level inventory of process energy, machining time, mass of waste streams (primary scrap and secondary catalysts) and quality parameters. The mass of waste streams are then evaluated for their environmental impact based on a health hazard scoring index. The Microplanning algorithm integrates these dimensions in an optimization framework to make robust process planning decisions at the feature level. A case study of a machined part is presented to illustrate the microplanning methodology. (C) 1999 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper describes the development of a semi-quantitative pre-LCA (life-cycle assessment) tool for assessing the environmental impacts of the production of a printer. This tool provides a quick-and-easy means of assessing the environmental impacts of a complex product, where a full LCA evaluation of the complex product would often require extensive c
alculations and the analysis is very time-consuming and places a heavy burden on the designer. The tool allows a designer to easily compute a total environmental impact value for each of the various alternative designs. The pre-LCA tool computes an environmental impact value by considering factors such as airborne and waterborne emissions, the recyclability potential, waste disposal, the global warming factor, the energy content of raw materials, the divertible plastic waste potential, etc. The analytical hierarchy comparison method is used for the designers to indicate the relative importance of these factors with respect to their designs. Environmental values for the various factors are calculated from graphs that have been derived based on extensive interviews with engineers involved in the production process, as well as from literature research. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science S.A. All rights reserved.New approaches and tools are needed to enable engineers to assess and deal with the environmental attributes of manufacturing processes. A special concern of adding environmental attributes to products and processes is dealing with the tradeoffs associated with those attributes. The paper demonstrates the utility of the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) wh en applied to the environmental streamlined life-cycle assessment (SLCA) of two manufacturing processes (chromic acid and boric/sulfuric acid anodizing). Two methods are detailed in the paper and the accompanying Supporting Information. The application of AHP to abridged matrix-based tools adds value to a SLCA approach by providing logical consistency to valuing the matrix cells and increasing the speed of analysis. AHP also provides a built-in check on consistency that enables the user to monitor the various comparison matrixes for logical consistency in assigning numbers to the cells of the matrixes.As the pressures on the chemical and process industries to improve their environmental performance are increasing, the need to move away from narrow system definitions and concepts in environmental system management is becoming more apparent. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is gaining wider acceptance as a method that enables quantification of environmental interventions and evaluation of the improvement options throughout the life cycle of a process, product or activity. Historically, LCA has mainly been applied to products; however, recent literature suggests that it can assist in identifying more sustainable options in process selection, design and optimisation. This paper reviews some of these newly emerging applications of LCA. A number of case studies indicate that process selection must be based on considerations of the environment as a whole, including indirect releases, consumption of raw materials and waste disposal. This approach goes beyond the present practice of choosing Best Practicable Environmental Option (BPEO), by which it is possible to reduce the environmental impacts directly from the plant, but to increase them elsewhere in the life cycle. These issues are discussed and demonstrated by the examples of end-of-pipe abatement techniques for SO2, NO, and VOCs and processes for the production of liquid CO2 and O-2. The integration of LCA into the early stages of process design and optimisation is also reviewed and discussed. The approach is outlined and illustrated with real case s
tudies related to the mineral and chemical industries. It is shown that a newly emerging Life Cycle Process Design (LCPD) tool offers a potential for technological innovation in process concept and structure through the selection of best material and process alternatives over the whole life cycle. The literature also suggests that LCA coupled with multi-objective optimisation (MO) provides a robust framework for process design by simultaneously optimising on environmental, technical, economic and other criteria. Pareto-optimum solutions obtained in MO provide a number of options for improved design and operation throughout the whole life cycle: This approach therefore provides a potentially powerful decision making tool which may help to identify more sustainable solutions in the process industries. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science S.A. All rights reserved.Surgical drapes made of cotton are under increasing competition with various disposable products and reusable draping systems (e. g., made of synthetic fabrics like polyester). When making a choice to use one of these medical devices in practical surgery, major aspects like handling, hygienic safety and costs, but also environmental effects have to be taken into account. In this study a mixed system for patient drapes (reusable cotton drapes combined with a reduced set of impermeable single-use drapes made of cellulose/polyethylene) was compared to a system that is only based on single-use drapes with regard to ecology [life-cycle assessment (LCA)]. The medical literature was reviewed to assess important medical aspects of the use of patient drapes, resulting in the statement that there are no conclusive arguments to support a clear hygienic superiority of one of these alternatives. Based on the conditions assumed and stated, the results of the LCA indicate that the mixed draping system is associated with two times more total energy consumption. In addition, more water is needed and more CO2 emissions are produced. However, draping with the single-use product results in more clinical waste. Regarding water pollution no system proved superior. It is difficult to compare and weigh various environmental aspects like the polluting cultivation of cotton in distant countries (reusable drapes) and the higher figure of transportation necessary to deliver the single-use product within Germany. It is an important disadvantage of the mixed system that it combines the ecological burden of both cotton drapes and the single-use alternative.The consumption of food products involves emissions of greenhouse gases. Emissions occur in the various stages of the life cycle of food products. In this paper we discuss the greenhouse gas emissions, CO2, CH4, and N2O, related to Dutch household food consumption. Combinations of greenhouse gas intensities (per DB) with annual household expenditures results in the greenhouse gas emissions from annual food consumption. An energy analysis methodology is elaborated with greenhouse gas emissions to calculate greenhouse gas intensities. The CO2 emission pattern resembles closely the household expenditure pattern. Emission patterns of CH4 and N2O differ strongly from the expenditure pattern. Food products from cattle farming determine the CH4 emissions, while food products from agriculture determine the N2O emissions. The non-CO2 greenhouse gases contribute 25% to the total em
issions of CO2 equivalents from Dutch household food consumption, significantly above their share in the total Dutch emission of greenhouse gases. For food product life cycles it is very important to include the non-CO2 greenhouse gases. The analyses show differences in greenhouse gas intensities within food product categories and between food product categories. These differences offer possibilities for reduction options. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.To address burdens associated with contaminated sites and issuing from remediation activities, a lire-cycle framework (LCF) was developed, including an approach based on life-cycle management (LCM) and an adaptation of life-cycle assessment (LCA). Intended for application to a wide range of remediation options, the objective of the LCF is to broaden consideration of potential impacts beyond the contaminated site and over a prolonged time frame. The LCM approach is a qualitative method for investigating remediation activities from a life-cycle perspective. This adaptation of the more rigorous, quantitative LCA method has involved specifying appropriate life-cycle stages, a long-term time horizon, a spatial boundary encompassing the contaminated site and other affected locations, a process boundary containing the contaminated soil, and an impact assessment method that considers site- and process-related metrics. To assess the suitability of LCM as a decision-making tool, six generic site remediation options were investigated: no action, encapsulation, excavation and disposal, vapor extraction, in situ bioremediation, and soil washing. The analysis exemplified tradeoffs between the streamlined LCM, and comprehensive, quantitative LCA approaches, and highlighted potential environmental and human health impacts arising from the six technologies investigated.An adaptation of life-cycle assessment for contaminated site remediation activities was used to examine a lead-contaminated site remediated by excavation and disposal. The study indicated emissions and impacts associated with energy consumption (transportation of contaminated soil to hazardous and nonhazardous sites), solid waste production (contaminated soil and sludge), land use at four sites (the contaminated site, two disposal sites, and a borrow pit for clean fill), and potential toxicity from emissions and contaminants remaining on-site. These impacts were drawn from an inventory compiled mainly from proprietary consultants' reports, and related to impacts through several stressor-impact models; the process-related indicators of global warming potential, solid waste burden, and ecological and human toxicity potential; and site-related indicators of land use and residual human toxicity burden. Ecological and human toxicity potentials were estimated using the Mackay level III model for southern Ontario, Canada, adapted for metals. The life-cycle approach proved useful for identifying potential impacts occurring at local, regional, and global scales, over all activities and locations affected by the remediation.Indicators and indices are important teals that assist decision makers to formulate and implement plans for management at local, national and international levels. Four indicators for hazardous waste management are described that have recently been adopted within the United Nations framework of Indicators of Sus
tainable Development. Although these four indicators will be useful tools, the need for a broader range of policy-relevant qualitative and quantitative indicators, proxy indicators and indices is outlined The argument is advanced that in order for all nations to better manage the range of hazardous waste issues, including waste generation, export/import and disposal, a set of innovative indicators and indices is required. Useful indicators and indices are described that could be used to link and quantify likely environmental, ecosystem and health impacts and risks especially from hazardous waste disposal. Indicators are also suggested that could be used to illustrate the shift in industrial strategy away from end-of-pipe processes towards waste recycling, cleaner production and integrated life-cycle analysis. It was concluded that until the lack of reliable and harmonized data on hazardous waste is addressed, indicator development and use by national and international decision makers cannot readily be implemented. (C) 1999 Academic Press.Green Quality Function Deployment-II (GQFD-II), a new methodology for product development or improvement, is introduced in this paper. By integrating Life Cycle Costing (LCC) into QFD matrices and deploying quality, environmental and cost requirements throughout the entire product development process, GQFD-II elaborates the original GQFD, in which Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and QFD are combined to evaluate different product concepts. GQFD;II includes three major phases. Phase I-Technical Requirement Identification. Quality house, green house and cost house are established in this phase, where customer, environmental and cost requirements are established and documented. Phase II-Product Concept Generation. A series of product concepts are generated to satisfy the requirements established from Phase I. These concepts can be evaluated with respect to quality, environment and cost. The best product concept is then selected. Phase III-Product/Process Design. In this phase, the requirements from previous phases are deployed into all product/process design stages, so that a series of matrices can be established, including: design deployment, process planning, production planning, maintenance planning, and retirement planning. In this paper, an illustrative example (engine filters) is used to demonstrate the concept of GQFD-II.This paper compares the results of a box model for the environmental fate of chemicals with spatially explicit models for water, air and soil. The spatially explicit models are based on the same model formulations as the box model, but use maps of emission patterns and environmental properties instead of average values. Results are expressed as a spatial distribution on a 25 x 25 km scale over Europe. For water and soil, the calculated maximum values are a factor 100-1000 higher than the box model results, for the air compartment, the maximum difference is approximately a factor 10. The consequences of the present results for the use of box models in risk assessment are discussed. It is concluded that for the air and soil compartments the box model gives a fair estimate of the calculated spatial average, given emission and chemical property data. The use of a local-scale model in addition to the overall model would give sufficient information to make application of spatially explicit model
s unnecessary in risk assessment. For the water model the box model underestimates the spatial average and the spatial maximum may be a factor 100-1000 above this average. For this compartment, an assessment of spatial variability would give important additional information. The present paper shows that a simple model may not be able to provide good local predictions of concentrations, but is able to provide the required spatial distribution in concentrations. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The objective of this paper is to show that for the optimal design of an energy system, where there is a trade-off between exergy saving during operation and exergy use during construction of the energy system, exergy analysis and life cycle analysis should be combined. An exergy optimisation of a heat exchanger has been carried out on the basis of the life cycle analysis method in this paper. The analysis of the heat exchanger in which exergy analysis and life cycle analysis are combined gives the design conditions of the heat exchangers which lead to the lowest life cycle irreversibility. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Development of an emissions inventory is frequently incorporated into many techniques and methodologies used in determining environmental impact, for example life-cycle assessment and as part of the review procedures essential to the implementation of an environmental management system. A software package has been developed for use by farmers and advisers, which seeks to encourage environmentally sound agriculture. The software acts as an informal environmental management system. An estimate of the emissions generated on-farm, coupled with performance indicators known as eco-ratings, are used to enable the setting of objectives and targets, the monitoring of progress and the success of improvement programmes. This paper seeks to describe the techniques adopted for estimating farm emissions. The development, piloting and validation of the eco-ratings have been described elsewhere. The approach used is necessarily simplistic as it relies on readily available farm data and heuristics to derive broad estimates of emissions including losses of nitrate via leaching, pesticides and gaseous losses of ammonia and methane from livestock. It is not the aim of the system to provide accurate measures of these emissions but, rather; to provide the farmer with data to identify trends which vary with farm techniques showing that as practices improve emission levels also improve. The inventory, together with the eco-ratings and text reports provided by the software give the user a variety of techniques for managing and monitoring environmental impact and improvement programmes. This paper also discusses the techniques commonly used within industry and the problems in transferring these techniques to the farm. (C) 1999 Academic Press.Rapid progress is being made in many aspects of materials, design and construction for lead-acid batteries. Much of this work has taken place under the auspices of the Advanced Lead-Acid Battery Consortium (ALABC). From the general tone of the literature, it seems Likely that several of these developments will be adopted in commercial products, and that there will be cross-fertilization between the emerging electric vehicle (EV) battery technology and the starting, lighting and igniti
on (SLI) battery. Given the impetus for improvement from several different factors, the development process appears to be accelerating. To those not intimately involved in the battery design and specification process, it is not clear which of the possible developments will make it from the laboratory to general commercial adoption. Some of the possible changes in materials, design and construction could have an impact on the recovery, recycling, smelting and refining of lead-acid batteries. Some of the possible developments are outlined and their possible impact is discussed. It is likely that negative effects may be minimized if battery developments are considered from other perspectives, largely based on the overall life-cycle, as early in the design phase of new products as possible. Three strategies for minimizing undesirable effects are advocated: first, improved communication between car manufacturers, battery manufacturers and lead producers second, use of life-cycle analysis (LCA) to identify and optimize all attributes of the product throughout its life-cycle third, concerted and coordinated action to deal with issues important to the industry once trends are identified. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science S.A. All rights reserved.A life-cycle assessment (LCA) study on various recycle routes of plastic materials has been conducted using the case of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles as an example. The energy consumed and the emissions released during the entire life-cycle of the plastic material were accounted for using the energy and material balances on each stage of the life-cycle. A mathematical modal including a simple nonlinear relation for the collection process of the bottles was derived for the system which encompasses all possible recycle alternatives. This model contains several adjustable parameters representing each alternative step of the recycle routes. Then through parameter sensitivity analysis and optimization analysis we could both identify environmentally favorable recycle routes and determine the optimal conditions for the best one. The methodology of this study can be easily applied to the comparison of the general waste management alternatives determining their relative advantages and disadvantages viewed from the associated environmental burdens. Those results will be reported elsewhere.This report surveys NTT's latest environment protection activities as well as the history and background of NTT's environment protection issues. As part of NTT's efforts in building the NTT group environmental promotion systems, we set up in November 1997 six committees, each responsible for studying one of the following issues: reduction of carbon dioxide, storage and handling of PCBs, disposal and recycling of wastes, building a telecommunications network to reduce the load on the environment, research and development of services and systems to make environmental contributions, and life cycle assessment. These committees are currently examining basic policies regarding each of these issues. All these issues are major themes that require the efforts of the entire company, led by the Global Environmental Protection Action Committee. In May 1998, an outline of the NTT Group's Environmental Policies to be adopted following NTT's reorganization was determined.Material reclamation facility, or MRF, was a name originally coined in t
he USA to describe the variety of sorting facilities developed in an attempt to cope with the vast increase in municipal rubbish from the 1970s onwards. Based on agricultural and mining sorting and grading equipment, some of these facilities have evolved into sophisticated machinery systems requiring elaborate design and considerable investment from the responsible municipality or its contractor. Municipal waste is typically high volume and low value. It contains a large percentage of organic waste and some hazardous items and materials, such as household cleaners and discarded syringe needles. The extraction of potentially saleable recyclates from such material is the purpose of MRFs and the general principles of managing this process are discussed. Recycling is generally placed second only to reuse in the hierarchy of waste management. To maintain this position will, as the life cycle analysis of waste materials becomes more intensive and thorough, largely depend on the efficiency of the MRF and, crucially, the collection system that feeds it. The position of the MRF within the waste management system is discussed. Ultimately, MRFs must be considered a temporary measure to allow some material recovery while the whole nature of material flows in society is readjusted to ensure that nothing of recycling value ends up as waste. The system supplying recyclates, typically packaging and newsprint, must also reclaim those materials and the responsibility must ultimately rest with the supplier not the municipality. The author became involved in waste management in 1989 with the 'Energy Park' concept of interrelated waste activities on one site. He set up from scratch the Plymouth Energy Park MRF, and ran it until 1997, when he joined County Environmental Services Ltd, the Cornish Local Authority Waste Disposal Company (LAWDC), with responsibility for recycling and waste to energy.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a broad topic that is currently being discussed. However, little is known about the assessment method of environmental impacts expressing a single index, especially in Japan. Non ferrous metals are one of the basic materials for industrial products. The establishment of the assessment for these materials is important to improve the quality of LCA for products. We have proposed a method of assessment for total impact in Japan, and a case study of LCA is performed concerning the nonferrous metals in this paper. The stages considered in this LCA study are: goal and scope of the inventory analysis and impact assessment. The inventory data include the consumption of raw materials and the emissions through the mining, transport and manufacturing. Resource depletion, global warming, acidification, eutrophication and air pollution have been considered as impact categories. The main results of this study are summarized as follows, (1) The impacts of eutrophication, air pollution and resource depletion are serious for the production of aluminum. (2) The stages of the consumption of non oil and that of the production of non oil are serious for the production of zinc, because the large quantity of non oil such as cokes are consumed. (3) We have showed that the interpretation will differ if the criteria of materials for assessment are changed from weight (per kg) to tensile strength (per MN).Life cycle assessment methodologies were used to evaluate cl
aims that cereal straw is an environmentally friendlier fiber source for the manufacture of telephone directory-grade paper. The major conclusions are that while less wood is used, the substitution of straw chemical pulp for the mechanical wood component results in increased environmental burdens due to higher energy and raw materials consumption. This is attributed in part to the lack of applicable black liquor recovery systems for straw chemical pulping in North America.An environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) was applied to two techniques for advanced wastewater treatment: granular activated carbon (GAC) on reactivation basis and advanced oxidation by means of ozone/UV. The LCA was set up for two situations: percolation water from a landfill (heavily contaminated flow) and HCH/chlorobenzenes contaminated groundwater (lightly contaminated flow). 1 m(3) of treated water was chosen as functional unit. The most important conclusions are that GAC has a significantly better environmental profile than ozonen/UV for the aspects studied. The environmental impact is dominated by: production and reactivation (GAC), in situ power consumption and the production of pure oxygen (ozone/UV).Life Cycle has and shall play an increasing role in the future, by influencing industrial management and eco-management puffing together producers, suppliers, customers to properly face the environment needs. Concurrent ecodesign enables, at design level, to anticipate, many of the problems that arise at the end of a product life. Eco-sustainable technologies shall be faced with a global monitoring as a summa of sub-monitoring and pre-monitoring activities, together with "ad hoc" simulation tools. New methods of costs auditing should be structured, involving the whole product life cycles where likely new business areas could arise.Increasing the use of bioenergy is a promising way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Hence it is important to know the greenhouse gas emissions of bioenergy systems in comparison with fossil fuel systems. A life cycle analysis of biomass and fossil fuel energy systems compared the overall greenhouse gas emission of both systems for heat and electricity supply. Different bioenergy systems to supply electricity and heat from various biomass sources were analysed for Austria in year 2000 and 2020. Total emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2, N2O, CH4) along the fuel chain, including land use change and byproducts, are calculated. Various conversion technologies and various fuels from forestry, agriculture and industry were considered. The methodology was developed within the IEA Bioenergy Task 25 on "Greenhouse Gas Balances of Bioenergy Systems" and is orientated on ISO 14 040. In this paper the results of selected bioenergy heat supply systems are shown as emission of CO2-equivalents per kWh heat for bioenergy systems as compared with fossil fuel systems, and as a percentage of CO2-equivalent reduction. The results demonstrate that some bioenergy systems already reduce greenhouse gas emissions because of avoided emissions of the reference biomass use or because of certain substitution effects of byproducts. In general the greenhouse gas emissions of bioenergy systems are lower compared to the fossil systems. Therefore a significant reduction of greenhouse gases is possible by replacing fossil energy systems with bioenergy systems. This co
mparison may help policy makers, utilities and industry to identify effective biomass options in order to reach emission reduction targets.Life cycle analysis has been used to compare the environmental performance of different sugarcane bioenergy systems. Environmental performance indicators such as resource consumption, chemical stressors and ecological health are used to analyse the trade-off between options. The reference fuel chain is based on current practices in Mauritius whereby bagasse in excess of sugar factory requirements is used to generate electricity for the grid. An alternative option uses the excess bagasse and factory filter cake to produce compost which when applied to the sugarcane plantations increases cane yield by up to 30% but at the expense of surplus electricity production. A third option combines improvements in steam management with composting of bagasse/filter cake. Results obtained from the comparative analysis show that it is possible to improve both the production of raw sugar (by 30%) and surplus electricity (by 190%) while reducing environmental stress as measured by the predefined eco-efficiency indicators. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The environmental effects of electricity production from different biofuels by means of co-combustion with hard coal in existing coal fired power plants are analysed and compared to electricity production from hard coal alone based on Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). The use of straw and residual wood at a 10% blend with coal in an existing power plant in the southern part of Germany shows that all investigated environmental effects are significantly lower if biomass is used instead of coal. Thus based on the available and proven technology of co-combustion of hard coal and biomass in existing power plants a significant contribution could be made to a more environmentally sound energy system compared to using coal alone. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Research and development of a nerv sophisticated software environment to support building design decisions are presented. This new software, the Building Design Advisor (BDA), is intended as a research tool, teaching aid and, eventually, as a practical professional tool to facilitate both strategic and detailed decision-making throughout the design process from the early schematic phases of building design through to the detailed specification of building components and systems. BDA supports the integrated, concurrent use of multiple simulation tools and databases, while allowing output to support multicriterion judgement. BDA's ultimate aims are to address the data needs of whole building life cycle analysis: design, construction, commissioning, operation, performance and demolition.Based on the concept of organisational capabilities and organisational learning, the paper looks at possible specifics and the influencing factors of the building and development of environmental capabilities and investigates in the light of these characteristics policy implications on the governmental as well as the business level. In this context, it is first attempted to identify the main determinants of the direction and rate of the exploration of ecological hazards, which is seen as an information driven societal process with differences in the conceptualization of codes. Within this framework, the,path' of
 ecological information from the ecological sphere,into' the firm is depicted from an evolutionary perspective. In this context, it is looked at the major role of environmental information systems, such as the Life-Cycle-Analysis (LCA), which can contribute substantially to this process not only by their outcomes in describing the environmental impacts of corporate activities, but also already by the increase of awareness concerning possible environmental suboptimalities in the course of the implementation of this instrument itself. Finally, main paradigms of environmental policy and business strategy are (re-) discussed concerning their consideration of the depicted diffusion of ecological issues. Main emphasis is given here in case studies on the discussion of the implications of the findings on the controversy concerning the competitive effects of environmental regulation.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a method for analysing and assessing the environmental impact of a material, product or service throughout the entire life cycle. In this study 100 GWh heat is to be demanded by a local heat district. A mixture of coal and wet biofuel is frequently used as fuel for steam generation (Case I). A conversion of the mixed fuel to dried biofuel is proposed. In the district it is also estimated that it is possible for 4000 private houses to convert from oil to wood pellets. It is proposed that a sustainable solution to the actual problem is to combine heat and power production together with an in improvement in the quality of wood residues and manufacture of pellets. It is also proposed that a steam dryer is integrated to the system (Case 2). Most of the heat from the drying process is used to the municipal heating networks. In this study the environmental impact of the two cases is examined with LCA. Different valuation methods shows that Case 2 is an improvement over Case 1, but there is diversity in the magnitudes of environmental impact in the comparison of the cases. The differences depend particularly on how the emissions of CO2, NOx and hydrocarbons are estimated. The impact of the organic compounds from the exhaust gas during the drying is estimated as low in all of the three used methods.The service life of buildings is an important factor e.g. in life cycle assessment and the assessment of global costs. Based on experience much information is available regarding the service life of building elements. However, for existing buildings such information is of little use as the key question is the probable date of repair/replacement. MEDIC is developed on the theories of conditional probabilities to help assess the residual service life and thereby the necessary investments in refurbishment. When passing from working on general products, like the life span of wooden windows, to specific objects, for example 29-year old wooden windows, the current condition of the object must be taken into account. An evaluation of residual service life must for that reason be closely connected to a good diagnosis method. In the European project EPIQR on deterioration of building materials and components is described by the use of a classification system with four classes for the qualitative condition (e.g. of a facade or window). MEDIC calculates the probability to change from one class to another during time. The prediction is based on the combination of t
he a priori probability based on experience from a large number of previous investigations/refurbishments and the current state of the object under study.A Lift Cycle Assessment on floor coverings in the public and service sector is under progress in Sweden, with emphasis on the usage phase. The result is sensitive to the predicted service life and it is highly desirable with a good estimate of the actual service life. But, service life prediction for a specific type of floor covering has shown difficult. However, an important topic is to detect the relation between the type of service life and the type of premise when the floor covering is installed. Five different types of service life are suggested, and further, it is suggested that technically and aesthetically requirement play an important role, strongly influenced by the economy. The public and service sector is also divided into five different types of premises and related to the different types of service life. It is showed that the prediction of service life for floor coverings can not be done with data on floor coverings only. Further information is required concerning maintenance methods and building related data. No intentions have been made to estimate the length of the different service life.This paper presents the framework of a fuzzy sets-based methodology for life-cycle cost analysis of facilities, including application to buildings. Life-cycle cost analysis is a major phase of facility management and value engineering. Facility components and materials deteriorate at different rates and require some form of maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement (improvement efforts) throughout their service lives. It is difficult to estimate the timing of these improvement efforts, i.e., the expected service lives of the materials at the end of which they have to be replaced or a point in the life at which they have to be rehabilitated. The timing of the required improvement efforts can be predicted from deterioration models or estimated subjectively based on expert opinions. The costs of required maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement may be obtained from historical data but these cost estimates have to be sometimes supplemented with expert opinions in order to perform life-cycle analysis. Representing these variables in the form of crisp numbers and fuzzy numbers, an algorithm is presented to formulate a methodology for life-cycle cost analysis of buildings. Fuzzy sets theory has been proven as a valuable tool for handling uncertainties due to subjective estimates in decision making models. Alternative building designs can be evaluated and compared early in the project development stage.Data regarding the performance and service life of buildings and building products are of utmost importance when assessing the serviceability of buildings. A well developed methodology is available when it comes to the selection of building materials and components based on performance requirements while this is not the case when it comes to the function of entire buildings. This is due to the fact that the performance of entire buildings is far more complex. The paper discusses the problems in assessment of life time serviceability of entire buildings, i.e. the ability of the entire building including materials, components, rooms etc, to function properly over the entire service life. It m
akes suggestions on how to account for the relationship between performance of materials and components, service life and long term serviceability and how performance and durability data may be used in assessment of long term serviceability. This is far from an easy task and in fact the paper should be considered as an invitation to discussion and to submit proposals on how the problems might be solved.In researching and preparing this paper it has seemed with an increasingly clarity that there is a case for adopting a performance scope approach in order to maximise upon the degree of freedom necessary in the early stages of the brief and design-concept if durability and serviceability of buildings is to be secured. In doing so permitting a fuller review of the building's own life cycle and, on a larger scale, the asset management of a building portfolio. The usefulness of a building, in terms of functional and economical performance, depends on its ability to support the primary activities of the owner organisation in adding value to their products and services. More specifically the building's configuration and space quality will need to respond to the way the activities are linked within the owners value chains and their associated embodied energy can fit within a broader base target set on a break down basis. Hot issues in the environmental agenda system, i.e. the life circuit of the building, its whole life costs and material life cycle appraisal may not fit comfortably in the current models for the building process and its project-management. Perhaps by using an integral performance approach in procurement this could change if only because the whole life or parts of the life can be embraced in the pre-briefing or briefing stages to suit.Life cycle assessment (LCA) permits a holistic design supply chain management methodology. However, its introduction requires a fundamental review of the design agenda and the client supplier interface. Life cycle assessment (LCA) should be seen in terms of the strategic domain of each supply chain that goes to make up a building and the extent design agenda which embraces and secures environmentally acceptable, serviceable and life balanced buildings. The new ISO 15686 "Guide for Service Life of Buildings" (in the course of preparation) will provide a basis to promote a client culture for a design practice that includes guidance on supply chain of the whole life cycle assessment and auditing. Connecting the principles of LCA in this standard, it is believed that all relevant stakeholders should develop design agendas that encourage a life resource management through a defined reference period.The time horizon in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) depends on the product being studied, and on the goal definition of the LCA. Service Life Prediction is the prediction of service life under specific conditions, as found in service life models or testing. The study reported in this paper was undertaken with the purpose to show how service life data are needed in LCA, how the data occur and how they influence the result. Wooden cladding and brick veneer are the external wall materials included in the study. There is a large variation in the environmental load, calculated from LCA, for the different scenarios. This study shows that in order to use LCA as a tool to evaluate the environmental quality of different pro
ducts, it is important to assess the surroundings in which the materials are used, and the maintenance of the materials during use.The sustainable design of buildings and building components represents a complex problem and requires the examination of many variables across a number of disciplines. For contemporary building assets to be truly sustainable, they must be capable of being supplied at a positive rate whilst ensuring that resource stocks are not compromised. Moreover, their delivery and subsequent operation must not compromise the future quality of the environment. Such requirements impact all area's of future building design and delivery. Windows and proprietary glazing systems are principal components in the external envelope of contemporary office buildings. As such, an evaluation of the sustainability of window systems is considered to be of importance in gaining an improved understanding of the sustainable design of buildings as complete systems. The evaluation of windows and proprietary glazing systems must be undertaken on two fronts. First, it is necessary to undertake a detailed Life Cycle Assessment of window systems in order to identify optimum approaches for given circumstances. Building designers can subsequently introduce these optimum systems, given the known performance characteristics of other building elements, having confidence that the environmental impact that is associated with the specified windows is minimised having taken due consideration of the functional performance characteristics that are required. Second, it is necessary to understand how important optimising the window system is in relation to improving the overall sustainability of a complete building as it functions as a total system. This paper presents work undertaken to produce a detailed Life Cycle Assessment of window systems in offices and commercial buildings. Subsequently, a causal path model is proposed to understand the relative importance of window systems in determining the overall environmental performance of buildings in relation to other key building elements and sub-systems.The dominant life cycle model of building materials and components is a linear system, which ends in demolition and disposal. If however, the act of demolition is replaced with the act of disassembly, more materials and components can be reused and recycled. This suggests a different life cycle model, one that accommodates an increase in service life. To achieve extended service life designers must design buildings for disassembly to facilitate the new steps in the life cycle and encourage the reuse and recycling of materials and components. Experience gained in the industrial design field and knowledge from attempts at creating disassemblable buildings can be used to create a set of guidelines for design for disassembly. Such a set of guidelines could be implemented to extend service life and improve environmental sustainability.Initial development of the National Master Specification (NMS) of Canada began in the late 1960's to avoid duplication by the federal government departments involved in construction, Through collaboration with private sector specification writing organizations. this document is now national in scope and accepted as the primary master construction specification by the Canadian construction industry. Canadian federal government regulati
ons required that all departments undertake proactive and verifiable steps towards sustainable development. Six areas were identified as having the greatest environmental impact, and therefore, the highest priorities in the "greening" process. The criteria used to determine the environmentally responsible choices that have been added to the NMS are based on consideration of life-cycle assessment and environmentally responsible design. The communication and awareness heightening methods used to assist in decision making, relative to the "greenness" of available options, are discussed in this paper. The paper details the action plan implemented to integrate sustainable development and durability principles and elaborates on the future application of the greened NMS in the construction practices specified by Public Works and Government Services Canada (PWGSC).In the Netherlands, 14 million tons of demolition and construction wastes are produced every year, of which about 80 percent is recycled on a material level, as rubble used for road subbases. The government however, prefers product reuse above material-reuse or landfill and incineration. Yet, there is no tool which would allow a decision maker to make a considered choice for the most Eco-efficient end-of-life scenario for a building product. The end of life of a building is defined as the last phase of the lifecycle of a building and can be subdivided in the following stages: demolition/disassembly; transport; sorting, cleaning, repairing and storage of products and materials; landfill, incineration, material recycling and product reuse. These various options for the end of the life of a building are called End of Life Scenarios (ELS). Optimizing for the end of life of a building has its consequences for the design process. When an architect tries to design for a certain ELS, he must choose the appropriate products and optimize the connections between those products. Suppose, an architect wants to design a building that can easily be disassembled and that consists of building products most of which are suitable for reuse. Of course he does not want to reach this aim at any price. He seeks a balance between environmental profit and the life cycle costs of a design, the costs that have to be made for the end of life of a building. To handle this problem we will not concentrate on the whole building, but at components of the building: the building products. This research project aims to develop a tool to assess both the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the end of life of a building product that effect the product's environmental impact and life cycle costs. This article describes product features that influence the end of life of a building product. A case study of an office building that has a very short lifetime of twenty years, designed for disassembly and recycling, illustrates the first results of this analyze tool.There is a genuine interest among enlightened building owners and roof system designers in adopting environmental objectives. In many countries a whole generation has grown up in a culture sympathetic and supportive to 'green' issues and many colleges and universities include environmental studies as part of their normal course work. The challenge facing the roofing industry and the CIBW.83/RILEM 166 RMS Committee, of which the authors are co-chairman is to translate
 this interest and good will into practical guidelines which will lead to improvements in the long term performance of roofs, within a given financial budget. Defining Sustainable Roofing as: "A roof system that is designed, constructed, maintained, rehabilitated and demolished with an emphasis throughout its life cycle on using natural resources efficiently and preserving the global environment," this paper addresses life cycle analysis issues across each step in the life of a product: from raw material extraction or processing, production, packaging, transportation, design, installation, service life, reuse, recover or tear-off, and its ultimate disposal and is illustrated in a cradle to grave model. Practical guidelines or 'tenets for sustainable roof systems' are developed and systemized under the basic principles of 'Minimizing the Burden on the Environment,' 'Conserving Energy,' and 'Extending Roof Lifespan.' These tenets are produced in a form that will be of practical everyday use for designers, suppliers, and contractors. Examples of sustainable roof design from around the world with optimal service life goats are given.In order to design for life a revised design and life care management procedural and decision framework needs to be developed upon building serviceability and the service life, not only to design for life but also to manage the designed service life through its life care plan. This would change the very nature and future of asset management. If such a practice was accepted, it would also place a new responsibility on those in charge of drawing up, or setting legal standards or regulatory controls, as well as those manufacturing building materials or components, or funding, insuring, procuring or maintaining buildings and above all the client and their design team. There would be then, the possibility of buildings and their constituent parts being designed and managed on their respective service lives and taken in and out of service, or disassembled or reused according to their serviceability and economic merits. Such practices would contribute to an extended building product life quality and life crafted and managed designs that could be under written as an insured life. In consequence, both design and service life methodologies need to be shaped to meet this new common but defined design service life practice. A change that will also include the service life and the life cycle assessment of the supply chains and building they will be located in. Adopting such an approach would also secure that whole life costed practice that would sit comfortably within the construct of the sustainable city. The new vivendi is intended to contribute to sustainable development and asset new vivendi is intended management as well.The burning of kerosene in jet turbines is investigated for two reference flights with a Boeing 747-400 and an Airbus A320-200, representing the typical Lufthansa planes for long and middle distance. The ecological evaluation is performed by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Formation of condensation trails, which is a specific environmental impact caused by air traffic, has to be considered in addition to established LCA impact categories. Based on the ecological assessment, an improvement assessment is performed. Environmental performance of diesel fuel during the combustion in car engines is analysed based o
n available publications. The relevant parameters for the environmental impact of the combustion of diesel (aromatics content, reduction of sulphur content, the reduction of the density and raising of the cetane number) are discussed with regard to improvements of the exhaust dualities of kerosene. A reduction of the aromatics content promises to improve the emission of soot which should be further investigated.Starting from an ecological perspective of urban-industrial areas, environmental accounting is used to analyse and to evaluate which environmental impacts are the result of communal activities (e.g. the results of different kinds of water supply systems). Therefore, the anthropogenic fluxes, the changing quality of areas as well as the processes between the environmental fields are taken into account. The approach is based on methodical elements of re Life Cycle Analysis and the Environmental Impact Assessment. Looking at the 'urban systems' within the communal activities, 'ecological modelling' gives us a new and fuller picture of the spatial and temporal character of urban metabolism. The approach supports the perception of cumulative effects and the postponement of environmental problems and opens new horizons for process-oriented environmental planning within the community. Greater efficiency and a decrease in costs can be arrived at by leaving 'end of the pipe' strategies; opportunities for a better planning process and measures for different individuals and organisations can be drawn up. A data base which acts as a 'support system' implements the computer-aided approach to environmental accounting.In this paper, the concept of Environmentally Conscious Ferroelectrics (abbr. as Ecoferroelectrics) is emphasized, the evaluation methodology of the preparation, processing, and applications of ferroelectrics on environmental load is proposed, the present researches on Ecoferroelectrics are outlined, and some aspects of future researches for Ecoferroelectrics are suggested.A sustainable society must meet the requirements for improved wealth as well as for closed material loops and minimised environmental impact. In new product development, functional requirements, economy and environmental considerations have to be balanced. Environmental adaptation means also a longer time scale, the entire product life cycle must be considered during design. Dematerialisation means that virtually all environmental impact could be considered dependent on direct and indirect mass flows. The total flow of materials in the eco-cycle must then be reduced, in relation to the service produced Radical changes, often expressed by the "factor 10", will be required. This is the real challenge in engineering. In this paper, environmental and utility indicators that could be used by designers are discussed. It is shown, that the dematerialisation concept has much in common with Life Cycle Assessment (LCA).The aim of the present study was to develop effective instruments which permit the choice of materials and architecture of an industrial product to be optimized, while conferring a high degree of eco-compatibility on the product's life cycle by means of different types of recycling at the end of its operating life. Having introduced the principles of Life Cycle Analysis and outlined a design methodology which uses this instrument, it was possible to analytica
lly define some Green Indicators considered particularly significant. Dependent on the recovery plan envisaged at the end of the product's life, these indicators are able to quantify the energy and emission content of the product as a function of the main design choices (materials and architecture). The indicators defined allow the architecture and the choice of materials to be optimized during the design phase, guaranteeing both a limited environmental impact fbr the product's entire life cycle and the recovery of resources by means of an efficient plan for recycling pa, ts and materials at the end of the product's life.Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is often too expensive in termsw of time that is required to carry out the analysis and in terms of the data required from a multitude of outside sources. Here it is shown that LCA data of assemblies, subassemblies, machine elements and other standard used parts and engineering materials can be represented in such a manner that subsequent LCA's on complex products can be carried out with a largely reduced effort and additional data acquisition. The method is based on analysing relationships (empirical and theoretical) between characteristics of the groups of assemblies and the life cycle inventory (LCI). The data is statistically analysed to test the significance of the relationships. The main feature of this method is the modelling of the life cycle inventory information as a function of the characteristics of the assembly. The LCI data can be then used as input data for the environmental impact analysis (EIA) according to existing methods(e.g. EDIP, EcoIndicator; etc.). The method is briefly illustrated with a case study on an electric moter.This paper describes a study on the environmental impact of a Bosch windshield wiper. The first part of the project consisted of comparing the windshield wiper with known ecodesign examples, in order to put red flags at apparently the most important environmental impacts of the product's life cycle (including production, use, and disposal). In a second part of the project a full life cycle assessment (LCA) was conducted on the windshield wiper in order to check the red flag assumptions of the first phase. These proved indeed to be environmentally important. The LCA was based, as much as possible, on on-sire measurements at the Bosch production plant. Finally, the results of the analysis have been used to formulate improvement options for the wiper.Environmental awareness in industry is nor longer focused on technological and economical aspects alone, and ecology is becoming a factor of growing importance at all stages of a product life cycle. To understand the ecological weak points in a life cycle of a product and to compare solutions to ensure the improvements in each stage of the life cycle a systematic method is needed to quantify all environmental impacts. Life Cycle Assessment performs the capability to quantify the environmental performance of a products. The output of LCAs, the ecoprofiles serve as a starting point for product and process improvements through scenario and weak point analysis. This paper will show the application of LCA to a telecommunication product (pager). In section one the methodology of LCA and some product information are shown. In section two details of the LCA project and findings are described, in the conclusion an outlook 
on most important needs to improve LCAs in electronics applications.Recent concern of people on global environment becomes much more serious. Therefore it is clear that no industry can be unconcern for their products' environmental impact The authors composed "Life-Cycle Design Check Sheet" for ceramic tiles and sanitary wares which focus on 6 environmental assessment factors; Product concept, Material composition, Durability, Recyclability, Packaging and LCA(Life-Cycle Analysis). With this sheer our conventional products such as ceramic tiles, sanitary wares, and pre-fabricated bathroom modules are evaluated. The results show ceramic tiles are excellent in Material composition, but poor in Recyclability and Durability. In contrast, sanitary wares are superior in Recyclability but poor in Material. The checksheet has already applied to newly coming EcoDesign-ed products. Septic tank requires less parts variation, Toilets' sophisticated material composition reduced LCCO2 emission, and Bathrooms consume lower energy and water in actual use. The checksheet is now expected to invite our EcoDesign-ed products to next step in ceramic industry.Ecomaterials research states in China were reviewed in this paper It involves the improvements in the following five fields: (1) Basic research on ecomaterials (2) Life-cycle assessment of materials and products (3) Ecodesign-materials and products (4) Recycling and reuse of industrial solid wastes (5) Materials for ameliorating environment.This study develops the ecodesign strategy on product research and development according to the concept of product life-cycle design. The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) model in this study is used to develop the design strategy for achieving the best environmental efficiency from the products. Furthermore, the development direction of green product decided by assessment model can forward the goal of green design within the company. This study searches a life cycle assessment model for submitting the improved methods on environmental impact from products when processing green product analysis by designers. The methodology and procedures for developing the design strategy of green products under life-cycle assessment model is the concept of structured system analysis. The study applies the Material cycle, Energy use, Toxic emissions assessment matrix (MET) and the checking list of green design for the LCA analytical tools. In addition it uses the Ecodesign Strategy Wheel (ESW) to develop the possible design solution and then establishes the ecodesign strategy of green products, The result of study helps designers to understand the improved degree on environmental protection from products. In conclusion, the application of case study appears that the company, has achieved the green design of notebook computer through the application of ecodesign strategy based on LCA.Many life cycle assessments are performed on existing products. However, it is of more interest to take environmental considerations into account when designing new products. With environmental aspects involved from the very beginning the number of uncertainties becomes overwhelming. To deal with this initial lack of product specification data (you have to 'design' those), the LCA-procedure is divided into steps, which are integrated into the design method. The life cycle oriented design procedure consists of a g
oal and procedure definition phase, generation and selection of alternatives (with the aid of an adjusted life cycle assessment) and, finally, the complete design and LCA phase. There are also some suggestions on how to take exergy use into consideration during this design procedure.A new 'bottom-up' approach to Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) which addresses industry needs is discussed. The current stare of knowledge in the LCA field has recently been assessed within the broader sphere of sustainable development and problems have been identified. In order for industry to take responsibility for its environmental impacts it requires an environmental management toolbox which can be implemented to assess operations and production processes. LCA is a powerful evaluative tool that has the potential to aid industry in their environmental assessment strategy. Current LCA methodologies however are complex and their generic nature focus on 'up-stream' decision making. This paper discusses one way to address inherent LCA problems and to thereby aid the implementation process in industry. This approach has evolved out of an architectural design philosophy, addressing issues at a sustainable community, level. The 'bottom-up' approach to LCA accepts the argument that local impacts lend to global implications and focuses on giving industry the ability to implement small-scale positive changes. The authors are using the Australian Plywood industry to test this approach and the paper discusses the findings to date.The Copenhagen Metro is expected to start operation in the year 2001. Building a fast, high frequency, automated metro in the capital of Denmark, means reducing air pollution and local noise due to transport. Ecobilan Italy, for its experience and skill in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology, was appointed by the main contractor of the project, Ansaldo trasporti, to implement an Environment Management System (EMS). Besides the traditional EMS, Ecobilan developed an innovative approach, basing the EMS on an a-priori Life Cycle Assessment and including major elements from the Design For Environment methodology. As soon as the design phase, all relevant elements and sub-elements of the life cycle of a metro system have been assessed. All the stages of the life cycle have been taken into account, from the extraction of raw materials to end of life aspects, including transportation, construction and maintenance phases. A close co-operation was sought after between the partners of the project: Ecobilan Italy (as the environment project manager), the main contractor and the subcontractors. This co-operation ensured the gathering and circulation of information between the partners in order to lead preventive actions and to minimise environmental impacts. An a-priori ecobalance has been performed based on the information collected. Towards this end the Ecobilan Group's LCA software TEAM(TM) has been used. This powerful software tool includes a comprehensive database and is able to simulate different scenarios and to calculate their effects on the environment. It has also been a continuous commitment to achieve conformity with local, European and international environmental regulations. One main aspect of the EMS approach discussed in this paper is the a-priori impact evaluation. This innovative measure became necessary since the Metro is still at the s
tage of a project. Plants or installations do not exist yet. This paper will also stress on the elements of Design for the Environment (DFE) included in the EMS methodology. The DFE approach allowed to improve the environmental profile by considering environmental constraints as early as the design phase. The consideration of the working environment is also part of the new approach chosen by Ecobilan. It required extensive cross-checking between plural European legislation. In the end the paper underlines the relationship between the project partners. The constructive co-operation has lead to the setting up of a real team geared toward the implementation of an environment-friendly project.Under constant pressure through both national and EC-wide regulations as well as increased consumer awareness industry has become more and more concerned with improving the environmental profiles of its products. Namely the end-of-life aspects have recently been pushed into the center of interest. Trying to minimize recycling and disposal cost and to increase potential revalorisation? profits, companies strive to integrate environmental constraints early in the design phase. This paper describes how Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Design for the Environment (DFE) respectively contribute towards the objective of improved environmental profiles of products and especially their end-of-life handling.This paper starts with a discussion of the importance of environmental demands in the early design process and the demands on an efficient DfE-tool for small and medium sized enterprises. It continues with a presentation of two quite common DfE-methods, Life Cycle Assessment and Checklists/Guidelines. This presentation is followed by a presentation of a new DfE-method named E-FMEA, previously presented by Nilsson et al [I]. The paper presents and discusses advantages and disadvantages of these three methods. For the E-FMEA method we also present some results from case studies. In "Discussion and conclusions" a figure is presented in an attempt to show where the three above described DfE-methods are most fruitful to use. Finally we present some ideas of further reseach on the E-FMEA-method.With the changes of life style, the sales volume of multimedia computer keeps growing quickly in recent years. Like other electric products, the multimedia computers are assembled by many pieces of materials and have short usage periods, which would result in heavy environmental load To reduce the environment burden effectively, the characteristics of life cycle design should be taken into account at the first beginning of product design. The purpose of this study is to investigate the environmental impact from multimedia computers by the analysis of LCA (life cycle assessment) and to establish the checking guidelines for designers in the process of product development After a checking assessment list is formed, an applied example is followed to support the result finally This paper is based on analytical and research concept to develop:apply and assess the whole model of recycling materials. In the beginning of the research, foreign and domestic literature review relating with green design, were made. Then the research flow & environmental assessment tools are assured and thereafter the screened design principle and checking list ave produced Meanwhile, the example of multimedi
a computer's development is applied to explain that how to reduce the environmental load and damage during the process of development Marched with the opinions of scholars, experts and users, the example is utilized to evaluate and to approve the effectiveness of this assessment model under this study.As a complement to life cycle assessment various environmental screening models have been developed. The screening parameter discussed in this paper addresses the toxicity of materials in electronic products. Obviously the material content of electronic assemblies is also needed for all other methods which distinguish down to the technology level and therefore serves as a starting point for more detailed environmental investigations. The modern packaging and interconnection technologies are driving forces behind the miniaturization of electronics in general and are used as parameters for a trend analysis of tomorrows electronics.An environmental Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study of a specific tomato ketchup was carried out. The objectives of the work were to illustrate how LCA can be used in production development; to investigate the influence of the geographical location of certain processes, and to find ways to improve the product's environmental performance. In the screening LCA which includes the whole life cycle, the packaging and processing sub-systems were found to be significant in the total environmental impact made by ketchup. Accordingly, six alternative systems, including packaging, processing and transportation, were modelled and simulated The environmental impact categories included were energy use, global warming, acidification, eutrophication, photo-oxidant formation and the generation of radioactive waste. It was concluded that the current geographical location of the production of ketchup is preferable; the contributions to acidification can be reduced significantly; and the environmental profile of the product can be improved for either the type of tomato paste currently used or a less concentrated tomato paste. A shift to a less concentrated paste would also mean that traditional quality parameters of the ketchup could be improved. (C) 1999 Academic Press.When analyzing the waste paper cycle, we use a systems analytical approach. In contrast to the most common methods used in life cycle analyses, no allocation methods are needed for allocating different effects. The use of such methods always introduces great uncertainty about how to interpret the result. Our conclusion is that a systems analytical approach is to be preferred. Examples will be presented of differences between the two approaches.CO2 separation and storage system is one of several ways proposed to mitigate the greenhouse effect gases, particularly CO2. We evaluated CO2 separation and storage system - generation, CO2 separation, liquefaction, and storage- using life-cycle analysis. Emission from all life-cycle stages - from mining coal to CO2 storage in the ocean - are calculated. Energy consumption occurred in operation of facility, and using much energy leads CO2 emission. Nevertheless, this system is still the technology with low CO2 emission and high power generations, and thus it might be thus a promising option as one of CO2 mitigation technologies.The paper summarises the results for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions obtained within the Swiss studies on 
environmental inventories of current and future energy systems for the generation of electricity and heat in Western Europe. The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology has been applied. Full energy chains have been considered to allow a fair comparison of energy systems and of different future supply alternatives. The results of these comparisons are intended as a support for energy policy decisions in Switzerland. In addition, LCA provides insights on the contributions from individual stages of energy chains thus allowing the identification of priorities for emission reduction policies or the selection of alternative processes within specific system. Generally, future systems will exhibit improved energy conversion. With the considerable improvements in fossil power plant technologies, the relative importance of other activities in the energy chains for the total environmental burdens will increase. Therefore, in the case of all analysed future energy systems the overall emissions of GHGs are significantly reduced in the absolute sense (e.g. 30-50% in comparison with the corresponding present average for fossil systems in Western Europe). The trend for modem cogeneration systems points to increasing electricity efficiency with simultaneous preservation of high overall efficiency. These developments are in turn reflected in the comparative assessment of representative energy mix options for future energy strategies for Switzerland.Global transport demand is expected to increase due to the combined influences of population growth and economic development. To ensure that CO2 - neutral fuels can provide for an increasing fraction of this demand, both demand side measures and advances in Vehicle technology are required. Specific fuel consumption may be lowered by decreasing the energy demand at the wheel (lighter vehicles with lower air and rolling resistance), by using highly efficient converters such as fuel cells, and by advanced systems design that allows for the recuperation of braking energy. Low temperature polymer electrolyte fuel cells combined with regenerative electricity storage in supercapacitors represent a particularly promising option, as they combine an attractive cruising range with ultra-low emissions. A future sustainable transport technology must be based on renewable fuel supplies. Distribution infrastructure is a key issue in the introduction of synthetic fuels from renewables. Waste biomass and solar energy may be used for the CO2 - neutral production of gases with high calorific value (synthesis gas, hydrogen). Synthesis gas from biomass gasification may be combined with hydrogen from renewable sources (hydroelectric power, solar electricity) to produce methanol as a carbon dioxide neutral, renewable fuel. The potential of solar chemistry for the production of solar fuels is described. Life cycle analysis is the appropriate tool to choose among the many possible energy chains (from primary energy to propulsion energy). These issues will be analysed with a view to assessing CO2 mitigation options in the transportation sector.We describe a decision-analytical, structured approach for developing environmental indexes, ensuring them to be explicit and problem-specific. The indexes are used for setting and communicating targets related to a product's environmental performance. Two index models are the fixed model, based o
n the prevailing tradition, where announced targets must be met in every impact category, and the flexible model, where impacts are aggregated and a target is announced in terms of the aggregated impact, thus enabling trade-offs between the impacts. The flexible model is a new and promising approach, which offers more freedom to reach the target even though more preference information must be modelled. We stress the different viewpoints of those using the index for target setting and of those whose products are evaluated with the index. We do this by differentiating between impacts and stressors and expressing the targets in terms of both. We illustrate the approaches with a hypothetical environmental labelling example.This paper presents an overview of the emerging field of predictive engineering. This is an integrated approach to life-cycle analysis, system monitoring, and management and usable-life prediction that is built on life assessment methodologies, measurements, data analysis and the application of predictive models applied to critical structures and systems. The science and technology that is now becoming predictive engineering has been developing over a period of nearly 30 years. Research is currently in progress to develop predictive engineering for application to critical defense infrastructure and systems, including units in the national conventional munitions stockpile, and to extend its application to elements in the critical national infrastructure.Minimising the environmental impact of a process is an important objective for plant design engineers. It is a goal, however, which is closely linked to the flowsheet structure and, therefore, must be considered at the conceptual stage of the design process. At the same time, economic criteria are important for the selection of good designs. Frequently, these goals may result in conflicting designs and compromises are required. In this paper, we describe a multiobjective process synthesis methodology, for the early stages of design, which can help the design engineer to identify such compromises. The algorithm is particularly suitable for bioprocess synthesis and is demonstrated and evaluated by applying it to a penicillin manufacturing process. The objective criteria considered include capital and operating costs, revenue generated, and two environmental metrics: the sustainable process index and life cycle analysis. The results show that the synthesis technique provides insight into the effect of different processing technologies and their interconnections on the multiple criteria. For this case study, the procedure is able to identify a set of flowsheets which satisfy both environmental and economic objectives demonstrating that a multicriteria synthesis tool can be invaluable for design with multiple objectives.Alcatel SSD Antwerp (Belgium) has an "ecodesign toolkit" available, in order to reduce the overall environmental impacts of its telecommunications products. This toolkit contains three basic types of "tools": qualitative (guidelines and checklists), semi-quantitative (metrics) and quantitative (LCA based approaches). This paper will specifically focus on product related metrics, which indicate how well a product meets the requirements which are part of the ecodesign guidelines and checklist. This allows product designers to calculate a single value (expressed in en
vironmental penalty points) which indicates the environmental performance of a specific product layout. In addition, the metrics reveals the key issues where environmental product improvements can be achieved. In this paper, the metrics approach is described and compared to two life cycle oriented approaches: life cycle assessment (LCA) and an eco-design analysis using software tool for quick eco-design assessments. The subject of this comparative assessment was a fan unit, a sub-assembly of a telecommunication broadband switching rack.The aim of this study is to estimate the total amount of materials used in the Telecom Italia telephone exchange (TE) equipment operating in the fixed network in Italy, in order to assess their environmental; impact, to improve their end of life (EOL) management and to obtain information for the Telecom Italia Environmental Report. Two systems, having different logical gates number (LGIU), were analyzed. Three representative types of electronic printed mires boards (PWB), used in this electronic equipment, were analyzed in details and a mass balance of all the mounted electronic components was done. The results of the inventory allowed us to evaluate the total amount of the materials for all electronic equipment of the same manufacturer. The inventory data were used in an environmental software based on Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology and for the first time the relationship between environmental impact and the LGN is presented. Finally it was possible to indicate some EOL management improvements.This paper summarizes the findings of a lifecycle impact assessment study consistent with the ISO 14041/ISO 14042 DIS standards. This study involved teams from key suppliers and telecom partners and describes the telecommunications systems in two cities: Stockholm, Sweden and Sacramento, CA, USA. The study is the first application of a system-life-cycle impact assessment (S-LCIA) in the telecom industry and uses the Life-Cycle Stressor-Effects Assessment (LCSEA) Methodology, A major goal of the study to provide a baseline impact profile of environmental impacts of the telecom system across the Lifecycle. This S-LCIA baseline is a necessary precursor to evaluate the environmental implications of the use and growth of telecommunications and to develop possible environmental improvement strategies such as supply-chain management initiatives and applications of telecommuting and alternative work arrangements. The system wide assessment produced impact profiles for each city at three levels: system intrastructural operation, equipment manufacturing and full system including peripherals. Selected findings from this study are presented in this paper.Assessment integration becomes more and more important as companies must handle increasingly complex issues. Traditionally, cost management, environmental management and design have been separated. Here, we present a assessment system that gives decision support with respect to both management and design; costs and environmental impact. The system is implemented based on the Activity-Based Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method. Activity-Based LCA is an extension of Activity-Based Costing as it handles costs, energy consumption and waste generation under the presence of uncertainty. In this paper we discuss how an Activity-Based LCA system has been implemented in two very d
ifferent situations and the associated results. We believe that Activity-Based LCA would provide the electronics industry similar decision support that it gave in the two case studies presented here.Global warming, depletion of stratospheric ozone, acid rain, loss of species diversity, and other environmental impacts can be traced, at least in part, to man's industrial activities. Resulting business and social pressures have caused the design and engineering communities to begin systematically integrating environmental issues into the design process; an activity referred to as Design for the Environment (DfE). Environmental Life-Cycle Analysis (LCA) matrices may be used as a template for establishing a DfE framework that can be tailored to a specific program or project and can be applied to processes, products or facilities. By using a team-based approach to identify significant environmental aspects, the design personnel are in a position to build checklists, guidelines and other DfE tools based on a life-cycle analysis. The matrix approach can be used to support the environmental aspects analysis of ISO 14001.Life-Cycle assessment (LCA) is used to improve the environmental performance of products over their entire life, and LCA methods are in a constant state of evolution, A quantitative model for product analysis has been developed at Carnegie Mellon. The model is based on economic input-output life-cycle analysis (EIO-LCA), a tool that allows a user to quantify direct and indirect relationships among industry sectors and associated environmental burdens during the manufacturing stage of a product. However, to study environmental effects over a product's entire life, use and end-of-life impacts must also be quantified. This paper presents a hybrid LCA approach to product environmental assessment in which both EIO-LCA and a conventional LCA approach are applied to comparing the total environmental impacts of primary and rechargeable batteries. We find that through the manufacturing stage, the environmental impact of primary batteries is greater than;that of storage batteries. Resource use and associated impacts after manufacturing can be partially quantified at present.This paper deals with the the combined environmental and economic rating of products with the help of the tools (Environmental) Life Cycle Assessment and Life Cycle Cost Analysis (LCC Analysis). Their application will be shown with the comparison of bodyshells made of aluminium, steel and stainless steel for ICE, double-deck and rapid-transit passenger cars of the Deutsche Bahn AG. Especially because of the extensive consideration of manufacture, operation, maintenance and disposal, that means the entire life-cycle, a reliable rating of products is possible.There have been a lot of changes in the railway business due to privatisation. New definitions of regulations for system acceptance, harmonisation of European standardisation as well as innovations within material, processes and information technology are calling for a progressive way of cooperation with operators, maintenance organizations, and the supply industry. The quality of cooperation with suppliers and Deutsche Bahn made great strides concerning the aspects of life cycle cost optimisation and assessment of operational reliability with regard to the large orders of ICE and ICT trains. The main goal was to fulfi
ll the safety and availability targets. Last year the research project "Bahnkreis" started a common approach in dealing with ecological effects and impacts of railways. The project working group will establish a common understanding for the handling of the life cycle assessment methodology (LCA) in the field of railway applications. Some examples of current improvements will be presented.Direct environmental considerations have led to the removal of chlorine from refrigerant gases. The objective of this paper is to describe a methodology employed to investigate the sustainable development of a domestic refrigerator influenced by this design constraint. This is ensured by concurrently addressing the indirect environmental effects taken from a product life cycle viewpoint. The parameters considered in this study are compressor wear, friction and the energy consumed in the use phase working with different HFC-134a/lubricant combinations. A life cycle assessment scenario is employed to assess the indirect environmental effects of these three parameters.The objective fixed by the European Commission in 1995 was that 5 % of the fuel used for transport in France should be produced from renewable energy by 2005. As opposed to some other European countries, there is no environmental fax on fossil fuels in France, but the Government has agreed to a tar incentive system on biofuels. Experimental work on liquid biofuels as a transport fuel started in France in the early 80's, but the use of biofuels on a commercial basis really started to develop,chen the setaside rules and tar incentives came into force in 1991. Out of the two routes originally considered for development : bioethanol and ifs ETBE derivative, and vegetable oils and their methyl ester derivatives, priority has now been given to. ETBE produced from sugar beet and wheat and now from sub-products of starch industry, which are widely grown in France; ETBE is blended with gasoline for use in spark ignition engines. Production of wheat and beet for energy purposes is very similar to food production. In France, ethanol produced from sugar beet is a traditional industry; this was the first route to be developed. The results of a life cycle analysis made for ETBE produced from sugar beet will be given, showing advantages and limitations. Alcohol produced from wheat is a more recent activity; two industrial plants have been built since beginning of the 90's and other projects are planned like for example a production from starch industry. RME (rapeseed methyl ester)for use in diesel engines at various blend rates. Vegetable oils or their derivatives such as esters can be used directly in diesel engines. Pure, filtered and degummed oils can be used in pre-chamber engines. Relatively advanced knowledge has now been gained about esters; because their characteristics are very similar to those of conventional diesel fuel, they are considered suitable for use in direct injection diesel engines without engine modification. In France, methyl ester is at present produced mainly from rapeseed; the results of the first life cycle analysis on RME (1991-93) will be summarised. Sunflower ester has been undergoing evaluation since 1995. Rape methyl ester is now widely commercialised (about 300 000 t/year); unesterified oil is still undergoing experimental work. A wide-scale advanced laboratory and field test 
programme was launched by ADEME in the early 90's, on the use of RME in engines. IFP (French Petroleum Institute) was the co-ordinator of this experimental programme which included * Laboratory measurements and engine tests with RME; * Field tests on captive vehicles or fleets (with different blends of RME); * Field tests with a 5% RME blend with diesel fuel. The major conclusion is that a 5% RME blend in diesel fuel does not cause any damage to the engines (running and engine wear) it improves the diesel fuel lubricity when mixed with a low sulphur content fuel. The French government has now authorised the unpublicized use of 5% RME in diesel fuel and domestic fuel. The use of higher blend rates is also authorised on a case-by-case basis. The French "clean air act" which came into force on 31/12/96, encourages the use of oxygenated compounds. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Recycling is very important for the global environment, however, it is very difficult to determine its quantitative impact. Generally speaking, a life cycle assessment is currently the most popular and typical method to solve it. Exergy is very important when considering the global environmental impact. All of our activities have been developed to obtain a high exergy material and/or energy and throw away the waste and/or waste heat. We are trying to use exergy to estimate the quantity of energy and matter for resource accounting. The environmental assessment of plastic recycling was possible using this method and the exergy reduction of the entire system was estimated by the yield of matter and the process efficiency.Life Cycle Assessment has been used to study the environmental impact of mobile hydraulic systems using both mineral and rapeseed 'hydraulic' oils. Rapeseed oil is far more readily biodegradable than mineral oil. It is for this reason that it has become popular for use in situations where a spill could cause significant environmental damage, for example, within forested areas. The case of a forest harvester has been studied in order to evaluate the whole life cycle impact of these alternative fluids, including their refining, field use and disposal. It is found that the production of rapeseed oil has a greater impact in relation to many environmental issues than the production of refined mineral oil. This is largely due to the energy required in the crushing stage of the oil's production. Rapeseed oil deteriorates more rapidly than mineral oil and so a larger quantity is required over the lifetime of the fluid power system. This means that the impacts associated with the production of the rapeseed oil is exacerbated when viewed over its life-cycle. The contribution to environmental issues for both oils has been assessed and it is found that there is a larger impact attributable to the rapeseed-based oil in respect to all the global and regional issues examined.Life cycle of a control valve is one of the longest in process industry. In this paper, we discuss how life cycle performance and costs can be optimized with the help of new Life Cycle Management (LCM) concept. A new Life Cycle Management (LCM) software has been designed. It can manage and analyzes all the information from control valve selection to the end of the life cycle. An analyzing tool helps to make maintenance decisions. Sizing and selection information are 
saved to a database. Also, valve performance is recorded before the delivery of the control valve to end users. Later, condition and control performance of an installed valve can be checked periodically. This service is called Control Valve Survey. It consists of performance analysis of the control valve and the control loop. Smart valve controllers have their own testing capability. Conventional valves can be tested with a portable testing system. All the test data is transferred to LCM database. Maintenance actions are based on visual inspection, test result and life cycle analysis. LCM analyzing tool helps to make correct and profitable maintenance investments. Decisions are based on real data. LCM database saves also the maintenance history and recommendations for next service.An approved method for the assessment of environmental advantages of alternative components is the Life Cycle Assessment. BMW applies this instrument in the vehicle development process. Within the framework of a Screening Life Cycle Assessment this paper will examine whether the higher ecological burdens for production of an aluminium body in white in comparison with a steel b.i.w, of an efficient powered compact car can be more than compensated by savings achieved during usage and recycling. The total result is significantly dependent upon the savings of fuel, realized through light weight design. Al the first analytical stage fuel reduction coefficients are derived. They range from 0,35 to 0.48 l/(100 kg 100 km) for gasoline and from 0.29 to 0,33 l/(100 kg . 100 km) for diesel powered middle and upper class cars. On the basis of these values fuel reduction coefficients between 0,19 and 0,26 l/100 kg x 100 km) can be estimated for a 3,3-Litre-Car with a steel b.i.w. (weight 884 kg). The result of the Life Cycle Assessment makes it clear that despite the lower fuel consumption the aluminium b.i.w. scenarios can show disadvantages in comparison with the equivalent steel b.i.w, in the environmental categories of Energy Demand, Global Warming Potential and Resource Depletion. Using energy-intensive light weight materials for compact class vehicles raises the risk of a disadvantageous shift of the environmental burdens in to the production phase as a consequence of the reduced fuel saving and the limited life time mileage.Many Romanian industrial plants and technologies are either old and inefficient or not well operated. They need to be modernized through process modification; by increases in the efficiency of equipment, operation and maintenance procedures; or by undergoing complete technological change. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a technical tool to use to identify and evaluate opportunities to reduce the environmental effects associated with a specific product, production process, package, or activity. It has three separate but interrelated components: inventory analysis, impact analysis and improvement analysis. Implementation of opportunities pointed out in the third stage of LCA can be made using pollution prevention techniques. The paper presents characteristics of the iron and steel industry, a case study of an LCA in a Romanian iron and steel plant, and some resultant pollution prevention measures for the studied system.Although Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been developed primarily as a tool for product development and comparison, it has much wider 
scope. This paper addresses the application of LCA to the selection, design and optimisation of process operations, with examples from the chemical, water and mining sectors. Of particular interest is the problem of reconciling incommensurable environmental impacts - known as the "valuation" problem - in LCA. For optimisation problems, rather than attempting to reduce impacts to a single metric constituting the objective function, the non-inferior (or "Pareto") surface can be used to define the space within which optimal solutions lie, and thus to provide the basis for implementing environmental improvements in process design and operation.Phosphorus is the nutrient that most often limits growth in freshwater systems. A major part of the Black Sea is critically eutrophic, because there has been an enormous increase in the nutrient load to the Sea in the past 25 years, probably as a consequence of the widespread use of phosphate detergents and fertilisers in the Danube Basin. The removal of P from detergents is the fastest way to reduce P-discharge into surface water; however all appropriate steps should be taken to encourage industries to develop phosphate substitutes that are harmless to the environment. A simplified LCA study was completed in the frame of the EU PHARE Project on Removal of Phosphate from Detergents in the Danube Basin Countries (Detergent Project). A consortium consisting of SENATOR Consult Ltd. and VITUKI Consult Rt. (Hungary), RIIDHE (Research Institute for Irrigation, Drainage and Hydraulic Engineering, Bulgaria) and WRI (Water Research Institute, Slovakia) was formed specifically for the purposes of this project. In addition to the consortium, experts from the EU member countries and local organisations and experts from the Danube Basin countries worked on the project. The Detergent Project was funded by the PHARE Programme of the Commission of the European Union on the advice of the Danube Programme Coordination Unit, Vienna. However, the findings, interpretation and conclusions expressed in this paper should not be attributed in any manner to the Commission of the European Union, to the Danube Programme Go-ordination Unit, or to the countries they represent. The overall objective of the Detergent Project was to support the riparian countries in the Danube Basin to eliminate phosphorous from detergents as soon as technically possible and economically and environmentally justified. The study aimed at providing support for the preparation of integrated, coherent detergent-policy and strategy in the Danube Basin and for the integration of LCA with other tools into processes that aid water quality decision-making, combining environmental life cycle thinking with economic and social decision-making criteria. The countries studied were Germany, Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Moldavia and Bulgaria. According to the objectives of the Detergent Project, those criteria have to be developed for detergents which lead to a reduced environmental impact during their entire life cycle. The criteria were based on the results of a simplified LCA approach. It is apparent that the criteria are of different importance and should be of different weight in the final scoring result. The results of the environmental impact studies confirmed that the emissions to waste water/water are the mo
st important ones. Whereas the packaging of the detergents is dealing with an impact to soil (dumping sites), air (combustion of packaging waste) and recycling management, the detergent ingredients are solely related to an impact an waste water/water. It is a result of the current discussion in LCA for laundry detergents that the impact and effects an different environmental compartments should be assessed separately but can be combined to a final result by appropriate assessments. All the environmental loadings that occur during the life-cycle of detergents have to be studied.The term 'green' is nowadays widely used (and misused) in connection with many types of technologies. If a technology is 'green' it usually means that the technology requires less non-renewable energy sources than other alternatives. However, other parameters need to be considered as well, such as sustainability, recycling potential, treatment capacity and potential, conservation of ecosystems, etc. In this paper the energy requirements and nutrient recycling potential of constructed wetlands and wastewater aquaculture facilities are compared with that of conventional wastewater treatment technologies. The energy requirements of constructed wetlands are very low, but if significant reuse of nutrients is included (aquaculture), the energy requirements increase significantly and usually beyond the energy equivalent of the biomass produced. This is especially true in cold temperate climates where the aquaculture systems need to be housed in heated greenhouses and artificial light must be provided to secure operation throughout the year. In countries where fresh water itself is a limiting resource and where the economic capability may limit the use of artificial fertilisers, the reuse potential of wastewater may be more important. The potential for sustainable cropping of the plant biomass is excellent in tropical wetlands as the plants have a high productivity and a continuous growing season. In order to evaluate in more detail the 'greenness' of the different wastewater treatment technologies, the life-cycle approach might be applied. However, because constructed wetlands, besides the water quality improvement function, perform a multitude of other functions such as biodiversity, habitat, climatic, hydrological and public use functions, methodologies need to be developed to evaluate these functions and to weigh them in relation to the water quality issues. (C) 1999 IAWQ Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In The Netherlands a research project is presently conducted, which has the objective to identify new, more sustainable sewage treatment scenarios which are based on physical-chemical pretreatment. After collecting possible treatment scenarios by means of literature research and contacts with international experts the identified scenarios are evaluated on sustainability and costs. For evaluating the sustainability, the following sustainability criteria (derived from the Life Cycle Assessment methodology) are used: energy balance, final sludge production, effluent quality. the use of chemicals and space requirement (footprint), Within this paper the use of these criteria is illustrated and discussed by means of two example scenarios and a reference scenario. The calculation results for the two example scenario's show that physical-chemical pretreatm
ent leads to energy saving when biological post treatment is applied. Besides, more energy can be generated through sludge digestion, due to an increased sludge production. However, the increased particle removal also leads to an increased final sludge production after digestion which will have to be disposed of and to a relatively high consumption of chemicals, (C) 1999 IAWQ Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.When attempting to assess the relative sustainability of a process or practice, it is important to be able to use measures which are appropriate. Sustainability can be viewed at different levels. At one level for any given process, the closing of cycles in terms of resource use and outputs (products and waste) may be an aspiration, and make that process in itself sustainable. However, the process may be intrinsically unsustainable when considered within a broader context accounting for all of the economic, ecological and socio-political implications. Traditionally sustainable indicators have been used as a measure to assess increasing or decreasing sustainability, following detailed analyses to define what the appropriate indicators should be. A current UK project investigating the options for the most sustainable means of disposal of domestic sanitary wastes requires measures to assist in the evaluation of the options. This paper reviews the use of indicators in the context of the current project and municipal water systems, and illustrates how an integrated approach may be envisaged incorporating economics, life cycle analysis and risk assessment as part of a framework to assist decision makers when deciding whether changes to systems or practices are likely to be more or less sustainable. A major conclusion is that any moves to introduce sustainable systems can only be made in conjunction with the system users - the public, who must be involved in the formulation of any new practices which require a change in lifestyle. (C) 1999 IAWQ Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents the preliminary results of a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study which aims to compare two different potable water pipe materials: ductile iron (DI) and medium density polyethylene (MDPE). Stages where environmental impacts may be reduced in the life cycle of these pipes have been highlighted. A takeback scheme between water companies and pipe suppliers has been identified as an environmental improvement to the current disposal stage of the pipe life cycle. Potential exists for dual-use or reuse of abandoned mains. (C) 1999 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd on behalf of the IAWQ. All rights reserved. Starting from an ecological perspective of urban-industrial areas, environmental accounting is used to analyse and to evaluate which environmental impacts are the result of communal activities (e.g. the results of different kinds of water supply systems). Therefore, the anthropogenic fluxes, the changing quality of areas as well as the processes between the environmental fields are taken into account. The approach is based on methodical elements of re Life Cycle Analysis and the Environmental Impact Assessment. Looking at the 'urban systems' within the communal activities, 'ecological modelling' gives us a new and fuller picture of the spatial and temporal character of urban metabolism. The approach supports the 
perception of cumulative effects and the postponement of environmental problems and opens new horizons for process-oriented environmental planning within the community. Greater efficiency and a decrease in costs can be arrived at by leaving 'end of the pipe' strategies; opportunities for a better planning process and measures for different individuals and organisations can be drawn up. A data base which acts as a 'support system' implements the computer-aided approach to environmental accounting.
 As part of the Cooperative Research Project 389 ACACIA (Arid Climate, Adaptation and Cultural Innovation in Africa), investigations were carried out in the Great Sand Sea of Egypt in spring 1996. Along 450 km of a selected dune ridge, 24 cross-sections reveal both a south-north change in modern and palaeo-processes and a change in palaeo-climate. The southern longitudinal draa (megadunes) were modelled by strong Pleistocene trade winds from sands most probably derived from weathered native sandstone, and were stabilized during an Early Holocene humid phase. Following aridisation, aeolian sands - probably in the form of barchan dunes - migrated some tens of kilometers farther south. The unique northern megadunes are probably transverse draa modelled during the Pleistocene by dry(!) extra-tropical westerlies. As a result of the aridisation following the humid phase, all of the draa sands, as opposed to the dune sands, are saline. The modem dunes (silk type), sitting between the draa in the north and on top of the draa in the south, reflect the bimodal wind system with a main component shifting from strong westerlies in the north to northern winds in the south. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Pacific Salmon are anadromous fish that cross state and international boundaries in their oceanic migrations. Fish spawned in the rivers of one jurisdiction are vulnerable to harvest in other jurisdictions. The rocky history of attempts by the United States and Canada to cooperatively manage their respective salmon harvests suggests that such shared resources may present difficult challenges for effective adaptation to climate change. On June 30, 1999, the two nations signed an agreement which, if successfully implemented, may end several years of rancorous conflict. For the previous six years, they had been unable to agree on a full set of salmon "fishing regimes" under the terms of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. This conflict was sparked by strongly divergent trends in the abundance of northern and southern salmon stocks, and a consequent change in the balance of each nation's interceptions of salmon spawned in the other nation's rivers. The trends are attributable, in part, to the effects of large-scale climatic fluctuations. This case demonstrates that it may not be a simple matter to respond effectively to a climate change. Adaptation is difficult when a resource is exploited by multiple competing users who possess incomplete information. If, in addition, their incentives to cooperate are disrupted by the impacts of the climatic variation, dysfunctional breakdowns in management rather than efficient adaptation may ensue. Institutional factors will determine the extent to which the management of such resources can adapt effectively to climate variability or long-term climate change.The usefulness of adaptation strategies to changing climate depends on the characteristics of the system that must adapt. Divergent views on whether climate change will seriously affect society and what society can do about it can be traced, in part, to divergent views on these characteristics of systems. Issues of scale and how impacts are measured are also important. We identify a set of fundamental characteristics of natural systems and social systems that help to make underlying assumptions in climate change adaptation studies explicit. These are: Shor
t-run autonomous flexibility; short-run non-autonomous flexibility; knowledge and capacity to undertake short-run actions; long-run autonomous flexibility; long-run non-autonomous flexibility; and knowledge and capacity to plan for and undertake adaptations that require changes in long-lived assets. Applications to crop agriculture and ecosystems illustrate how these portraits can be used. We find that if empirical research is to resolve questions of adaptability, more careful specification of the exact measure of impact and far richer models of the process of adaptation, able to test implicit assumptions in much of the existing empirical research, are needed.In this article, the relationship between U.K. water companies' perceptions of past climatic extremes and their effect on resilience to future climatic change is explored. Perceptions and activities related to past and future dry periods was investigated through interviews with managers at the ten major English and Welsh water supply/sewerage companies, and several smaller, water-only companies. Several of the companies report that they have observed a trend towards drier summers in their regions, and a number of companies say that they have observed a change towards more intensive rainfall of shorter duration. Recent supply measures in a number of regions have been aimed at improving storage and distribution related to the perceived change in rainfall intensity. A new requirement to incorporate regional climate change scenarios in future supply assumptions appears to have had little impact on planning in the region to date. Many water resource planners believe that the scenarios generated are too aggregated and do not encourage a precautionary approach to planning. Some managers believe that records of historical drought conditions, such as experienced in 1933/1934 or 1995/1996, as worst-case scenarios provide a better basis for planning.Many developing countries, especially in Africa, contribute only very small amounts to the world total of greenhouse gas emissions. For them, the reduction of such emissions is not a priority, and the more important issue is to find ways to reduce their vulnerability to the projected climate change which is being imposed upon them largely as a result of emissions from developed countries. This priority does not accord with the ultimate objective of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is to achieve stabilization of greenhouse gas emissions. This paper reports upon studies in Uganda designed to help in the development of a national adaptation strategy, and addresses the need to reconcile such a strategy with the global priority accorded to mitigation and with national economic development priorities. Some features of a national climate change adaptation strategy are identified and questions are raised about the need for an international regime to facilitate and support adaptation. Time-dependent geographical distributions of surface-air temperature change relative to year 2000 are constructed for four scenarios of greenhouse gas (GHG) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions, and are compared to the IS92a scenario. The four new scenarios have been developed by four different modeling teams. The four scenarios are noninterventionist, in that they do not include abatement of GHG emissions for the purpose of climate-change mitigati
on. The rime evolution of the changes in global-mean surface-air temperature and sea level are calculated for each scenario by our energy-balance-climate/upwelling-diffusion-model. The temperature changes individually and jointly for the radiative forcing by the GHGs and by the sulfate aerosol, which is formed in the atmosphere from the emitted SO2. These GHG- and SO2-induced global-mean temperature changes are used to scale in time the geographical distributions of surface-air temperature simulated by our University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) atmospheric-general-circulation/mixed-layer-ocean model, respectively for a doubling of the CO2 amount and for a 10-fold increase in present-day SO2 emission-the latter from the entire earth as well as individually from Europe, Siberia, North Africa, Asia, North America.The proposed Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) of the Kyoto Protocol paves the way for financial and technological transfers to support forestry projects that sequester carbon or protect carbon stocks. From its inception, the concept has been highly controversial. It has been enthusiastically supported by those who believe that conservation of tropical forests will be difficult unless forest owners and managers are compensated for the environmental services of their forests. Others believe that financial transfers supporting 'carbon farming' would ignore social concerns and the full range of goods and services of forests. This paper examines the implications of CDM for forest conservation and sustainable use, by drawing on recent literature and the results of a policy dialogue with CDM stakeholders. We conclude that initial estimates of the contribution tropical forestry could make to both climate change mitigation and to forest conservation need to be scaled down. CDM payments for tropical forestry are likely to be received in a far more limited area than initially expected. The cost-effectiveness of forestry projects relative to projects in the energy sector may have been overestimated. In particular few estimates have adequately accounted for the likelihood that the duration of CDM forestry projects is unlikely to be as long as the residency time of carbon in the atmosphere. Also political realities and investor priorities may not have been sufficiently understood. CDM funding for forestry may also decline in future as economically viable clean technologies are increasingly developed in the energy sector. Tropical forests are likely to be an intermediate climate change mitigation strategy for buying time, until more permanent options become available. The most important justification for including forests in CDM may lie in the contribution CDM could potentially make to forest conservation and sustainable use. An analysis of the implications of CDM for forests reveals the importance of involving forest stakeholders more closely in the CDM debate. To prevent perverse outcomes and reduce the risk of 'leakage' of emission reduction to areas outside project boundaries; CDM projects may need to be limited to niches which meet certain political and institutional preconditions and where sufficient understanding of local decision-making and the broader context is available. CDM may be more effective if used to remove non-economic impediments to forestry activities that are economically viable and meet local needs. Lessons from 
the forestry sector in relation to plantations, natural forest management, forest conservation and non-timber forest products are discussed to illustrate the dangers of misusing CDM and also to give examples of how CDM could be harnessed for better use of forests. CDM should be seen as one more tool for enhancing the effectiveness of more conventional ways of promoting forest conservation and sustainable use.The adoption of physical thresholds as a ceiling for permitted climate change sidesteps contentious issues such as: policy cost, impact valuation, discounting and equity. In this paper I offer some reflections on the concept of tolerable climate change. I also use an integrated climate assessment model (ICAM-3) to demonstrate how uncertainties in our understanding of socioeconomic and earth systems reduce the probability of success in keeping climate change within a pre-defined tolerable range. Finally, I explore the implications of socioeconomic thresholds for welfare loss in pursuit of a climate policy (e.g., tax rebellions). Crossing such regional socioeconomic thresholds will lead to local failures to pursue climate change mitigation policies - increasing the probability of straying beyond the tolerable window of global climate change. Given various uncertainties and the dynamics of the socioeconomic and the earth systems, the odds of success in staying within a climate change window of Delta T less than or equal to 2 degrees C, and Delta T/yr less than or equal to 0.015 degrees C are estimated to be no higher than 25% over the next century. A risk-risk tradeoff approach appears to hold promise, but while adoption of a larger window of tolerance increases the probability of success, it also opens the window specification criteria to contention.Current concerns with the sustainability of agroecosystems in different parts of the world have hightened the awareness for careful use of the natural resource base on which agriculture depends. For proper and efficient use of soils and plant/animal genetic material, knowledge of the role of climate is an essential precondition. Several elements of the chapters in Agenda 21, a global plan of action agreed at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), require the attention of the agrometeorologists and these have been reviewed. Three International Conventions which have a bearing on sustainable agriculture including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC), the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) were negotiated and ratified since 1992. The World Food Summit Plan of Action (WFSPA), which was developed in 1996, includes several commitments to make agricultural production sustainable. Agrometeorological aspects of these three Conventions and the WFSPA were reviewed. Some of the priorities for agrometeorologists to address sustainable agriculture in the 21st Century were discussed. These include improvement and strengthening of agrometeorological networks, development of new sources of data for operational agrometeorology, improved understanding of natural climate variability, promotion and use of seasonal to inter-annual climate forecasts, establishment and/or strengthening of early warning and monitoring systems and promotion of geographical information systems and remot
e sensing applications and agroecological zoning for sustainable management of farming systems, forestry and livestock. Other priorities include use of improved methods, procedures and techniques for the dissemination of agrometeorological information, development of agrometeorological adaptation strategies to climate variability and climate change, mitigation of the effects of climate change, more active applications of models for phenology, yield forecasting etc.,active promotion of tactical applications such as response farming at the field level and promoting a better understanding of the interactions between climate and biological diversity. These present important challenges and great opportunities for agrometeorologists to play a proactive role in promoting sustainable development in the 21st Century. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The idea of greenhouse-gas credit borrowing in global or national context faces severe problems such as international and intergenerational equity issues. Though the merit of cost reduction is obvious, the possibility is small for such a scheme to be massively allowed in future international negotiations. Still, there is a good chance for each specific player to use the idea of time flexibility. Through analytic and numerical model analysis, this paper demonstrates the merits of time flexibility on a sector base. First, the derived analytic solution for time paths of marginal mitigation costs gives an insight to the relation between timing and costs of mitigation action. Second, the numerical model analysis for the Japanese electricity supply sector shows that time flexibility can drastically reduce costs for mitigation in the sector. Time flexibility is important specifically to the Japanese electricity supply sector because (1) the sector is capital intensive and has long capital turnover time and (2) available mitigation option is limited for near future. A sector like the Japanese utility sector needs some kind of mechanism to virtually realize the merits of using time flexibility. Domestic and international emission trading systems are the most promising candidate to date. (C) 2000 Scripta Technica.The impact of climate change in Scotland will be felt either directly, through changes in our physical environment or in the cost of adapting to change, or indirectly, from the changes in society required to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. This paper reports on the first broad assessment of these direct and indirect impacts of climate change on the following socio-economic sectors in Scotland: energy supply, transport, domestic, public services, business, agriculture forestry and fisheries. The emphasis in each sector has been to detect its vulnerability to climate change impacts and climate change mitigation strategies, combined with a judgement on the confidence of prediction. This provides a comparative analysis of the sensitivity of different sectors to climate change. As such, it is the most appropriate approach for assessing and prioritising response strategies between different sectors.The Global Environment Facility (GEF) was established to forge international cooperation and finance actions to address four critical threats to the global environment: biodiversity loss, climate change, degradation of international waters, and ozone depletion. From 1991-1999, the GEF approv
ed 92 climate change projects that represent a diverse range of innovative approaches to promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy. The paper provides an overview of the GEF's climate-change mitigation strategies, project designs, and emerging project impacts. The paper will interest those seeking to understand approaches to climate change mitigation, those designing projects to build sustainable markets for climate-friendly technologies, and those undertaking energy project evaluations. The practice of life cycle assessment has been well documented as a tool for comparing products and processes or comparing various components within a life cycle. This paper addresses the question of how changes can be made once an assessment has been completed, such as identifying the improvements that can be made to address environmental problems and to decrease impacts on human health and the environment. Green chemistry, a fairly recent approach that addresses environmental concerns at a fundamental level, has already demonstrated examples of what we call 'life cycle innovation', that is, improvements at all stages of the product or process life cycle. This paper explores various applications of green chemistry methodologies to all stages of a product or process life cycle.Industrial ecology is an evolving framework for the analysis and design of public policy, corporate strategy and technological systems and products. Its metaphorical denotation springs from conceptual models characteristic of sustainable or long-lived ecosystems. Some authors stress the material and energy flows within a system of producers and consumers and aim to build knowledge about these flows that can be used for such design purposes as above. Others see industrial ecology primarily in its more metaphorical sense as providing new normative themes for a possibly sustainable world. Such norms include connectedness, cooperation, and community. These particular norms are, more or less, contrary to prevailing elements of social structures in market-based, industrialized nations. The paradigmatic, normative potential of industrial ecology is contrasted with its potential as an emerging "science" of sustainability.Industrial ecology is fundamentally a social and organizational construct The article explores the centrality of human decision, imagination, skill, and process in effective industrial ecology applications. The role of self-organizing systems, social process, business drivers, industrial network theory and practice, environmental management systems, human resource strategies, and learning organizational constructs are presented as critical components of the industrial ecology concept and implementation Broad inclusion of these conceptual and operational frameworks will assist in the spread of industrial ecology Reductionist approaches to industrial ecology are challenged to seek systemic and socially cognizant strategies.Despite increases in the nation's population, affluence, and timber removals, US forest area has remained constant and timber inventory has risen 30 percent since 1952. Industrial ecology, which analyzes the flow of timber through systems of production and consumption, seeks to explain how that happened; it also shows the leverage that consumers, millers, and foresters have to reduce harvested area and continue the rebirth of the American forest. Cha
nges in demand by consumers, wood utilization by millers, and management by foresters can help conserve forests for uses other than timber. Of the three actors, however, foresters can exert the most leverage-by increasing the growth rate of trees.Industrial ecology is both a vision, a research field, and a source of inspiration for practical work. Its proponents aim to contribute to sustainable development by closing materials cycles and realising a fundamental paradigm shift in the thinking concerning industry-ecology relations. Dominant research lines in industrial ecology focus on industrial metabolism and life cycle tools. The underlying assumption is that the flow and transformation of materials can be managed through the correcting of market and regulatory failures which are causes of environmental degradation. This literature review suggests, on the one hand, that the manageability of the flow of materials is currently limited by market and regulatory failures which inhibit the implementation of the principles of industrial ecology and, on the other hand, that the flow and transformation of materials are only partly affected by prices, information and laws.Three factors are likely to cause a major paradigm shift in the field of ecotoxicology: 1. heightened interest in sustainable use of the planet, 2. increased recognition of the value of ecosystem services and natural capital, 3. the consilience of ecology and industry via the rapidly developing field of industrial ecology. This manuscript provides a preliminary exploration of likely components of the paradigm shift.Drawing from two different strands of literature, industrial ecology and spatial analysis, the paper attempts to examine the role that location plays in determining firm survival. A time-varying covariates hazard model is used on Greek firms, which enter manufacturing in the early 1980s and are followed up to 1992. Location in Greater Athens vs. the rest of the country affects survival positively, especially when smaller firms are concerned. Other firm variables such as current size, profitability, leverage and capital together with growth and industry contestability are also found to affect survival, which becomes more difficult for firms established closer to recessions.Industrial ecology, the multidisciplinary study of coupled economic and environmental systems, provides the intellectual basis for understanding and implementing the vision of sustainable development in the firm. Using this approach, AT&T developed a matrix system which, when applied to the firm's products and operations, laid the groundwork for systemic improvements in the firm's environmental performance.Recoverable manufacturing systems minimize the environmental impact of industry by reusing materials, reducing energy use, and reducing the need to landfill industrial products. These systems are widespread in the United States and are profitable, in addition to contributing to sustainable development. However, the management of supply-chain activities can differ greatly from management activities in traditional manufacturing supply chains. Seven complicating characteristics increase uncertainty. Managers must take actions to reduce uncertainty in the timing and quantity of returns, balance return rates with demand rates,;md make material recovery more predictable. Managers must also plan for the co
llection of products from end-users. The use of information systems with new production-planning and control techniques makes management of these activities more predictable.Industrial ecology suggests that businesses should operate more like ecosystems: cycling energy and matter through the system, with limited waste outputs. By preventing contamination and reusing by-products, industry could sale money while protecting the environment and generating new economic opportunities. This paper discusses the theory: practice, and limitations of the new field of industrial ecology and considers some of its implications for planning and designing industrial parks.A quite unconventional, innovative scientific methodology called "macroscopic pattern analysis" is presented in this paper. This approach is more adequate in the case of complex systems than the well-known microscopic, mechanistic approach. Complex systems are not only attracting more engineering interest, but their scientific treatment is increasingly wanted by society due to the manifold problems in Earth's ecosphere. The macroscopic pattern approach will be explained in depth and illustrated in some case studies from the ecosphere (sustainability, hurricanes and avalanches), where nature serves as a teacher for the solution of the sustainability problem. Then, a series of case studies on macropatterns are described showing the problem-solving capacity for anthropo- and technosphere: sustainability in society with an index of sustainability, the eco-social market economy with eco-tech as an instrument, biokinetics, bioreactor mixing and integrated bioprocessing with models, design of cars and houses and even quality of life as an attempt to quantify macropatterns. The innovations are briefly compared in their problem-solving capacity with known approaches such as the microscopic method in science, technology and society (free market economy), including the evaluation of other indices and cleaner production, industrial ecology and zero emission initiative. Finally, a deeper integration of sciences, ethics, arts and nature will be introduced based on the vision with macroscopic pattern analysis, where the different domains of human life are integratable to effect a reconciliation.Industrial symbiosis, as part of the emerging field of industrial ecology, demands resolute attention to the how of materials and energy through local and regional economies. Industrial symbiosis engages traditionally separate industries in a collective approach to competitive advantage involving physical exchange of materials, energy, water, and/or by-products. The keys to industrial symbiosis are collaboration and the synergistic possibilities offered by geographic proximity. This gaper reviews the small industrial symbiosis literature and some antecedents, as well as early efforts to develop eco-industrial parks as concrete realizations of the industrial symbiosis concept. Review of the projects is organized around a taxonomy of five different material exchange types. Input-output matching, stakeholder processes, and materials budgeting appear to be useful tools in advancing eco-industrial park development. Evolutionary approaches to industrial symbosis are found to be important in creating the level of cooperation needed for multi-party exchanges.The Surface Mount Council(1) has identified the issue of lead
-firee electronics as an emerging area for concern and evaluation. This has been triggered by the European Union's (EU) proposal for a Directive on Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)(2) and by the Japanese focus on environmental marketing and on recycling which has resulted in timetables for lead elimination. 3 From an industrial ecology perspective, it is essential to evaluate the environmental impact of the proposed alternatives and to compare this with that of the present Sn/Pb solder. Industrial ecology is the multidisciplinary study of industrial systems and economic activities, and their links, to fundamental natural systems. 4 Based on this definition, it is important to reflect on the environmental impact of lead-free electronics through their entire life cycle. This includes factors such as alloy availability, processing considerations, energy use and ground water contamination. Based on these criteria, lead-free products are not more environmentally friendly than the present electronics soldered with Sn/Pb. Thus, the focus of future regulation should be on recovery and recycling of the metals at end-of-life as required in the WEEE rather than the elimination of lead-based solder.As the world's population and global standard of living increase, the role of metals in the economy will not diminish in the 21(st) century, despite substitution and dematerialisation trends. Industrial Ecology is an emerging science that attempts to bring together physical, biological and social scientists and develop the tools for good management of the planet in the long run. In engineering terms, industrial Ecology is defined as the reconfiguring of industrial activities with full knowledge of their environment consequences. Production and use of materials must take into account the needs of both market and environment. Dispersive uses of metals will be phased out, as is being done with lead in gasoline, and post-use recovery of materials and energy will increase. This will result in an advantage for metallurgical processes that can use as feed materials concentrates as well as metal scrap and waste streams, such as bath smelting processes and slag resistance electric furnaces. The paper also discusses how metal extraction technologies, developed in the 20(th) century to provide essential materials to humanity, can be applied for the benefit of both mankind and environment in the 21(st) century.From a material cycles perspective all processes are interconnected and consequently a process can never be evaluated as an isolated and independent unit. This also holds true for the evaluated co-incineration options. Environmental and sustainability issues for example, such as raw material and energy utilisation or air pollution, are a resultant of the whole system of industrial activities. It is therefore important, not to optimise a single process or industrial activity, but rather the whole system. Although engineering procedures far the design of individual industrial units are well developed, the problem of determining the best arrangement of these interconnected units is often far more difficult. Regulation that manages the arrangement of the units for waste processing is still under construction. In the evaluation of co-incineration, analogous principle from process control can be used: feedforward control. This principle includes t
he determination of which outlets can be used for all process outputs, hence avoidance of any 'unusable' products or wastes possibly arising from co-incineration. To establish the extent, to which produced wastes are usable, a system overview is necessary, in addition to in-depth information on the subsystems, which produce and can consume wastes. Material cycles modelling can be used as the basis for a tool that supports the development of a suitable playing field. It should provide overview of the system and in-depth information on its subsystems. This toot then represents an attempt to bridge the gap between 'holistic' industrial ecology and process engineering.A hydrotreating unit has been analyzed using the notion of exergy. The analysis has been based on the simulation results with the aid of real operating data. Driving and material exergy losses have been separately defined and quantified. Locations and the reason of major exergy losses have been pinpointed and improvement strategies have been suggested. It has been noted that the exergy analysis can provide a sound base for adopting the concept of industrial ecology and developing loss prevention schemes.The Surface Mount Council(1) has identified the issue of lead-free electronics as an emerging area for concern and evaluation This has been triggered by the European Union's (EU) proposal for a Directive on Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)(2) and by the Japanese focus on environmental marketing and on recycling which has resulted in timetables for lead elimination(3). From an industrial ecology perspective, it is essential to evaluate the environmental impact of the proposed alternatives and to compare those with that of the present Sn/Pb solder. Industrial ecology is the multidisciplinary study of industrial systems and economic activities, and their links to fundamental natural systems(4). Based on this definition, it is important to reflect on the environmental impact of lead-free electronics through their entire life cycle. This includes factors such as alloy availability, processing considerations, energy use and ground water contamination. Based on these criteria, lead-free products are not more environmentally friendly than the present electronics soldered with Sn/Pb. Thus, the focus of future regulation should be on recovery and recycling of the metals at end-of-life as required in the WEEE rather than the elimination of lead-based solder.Over thirty communities in North America are creating eco-industrial projects as a new paradigm for environmentally sensitive economic development. These developments promise job creation, resource efficiency, and reduced municipal waste burdens through carefully designed and applied industrial ecology principles. This paper seeks to understand the evolution of eco-industrial developments and examine their application within the context of electronics disposition. It offers examples of operating and potential park developments and the various strategic and design approaches taken by different communities. It also highlights the potential synergies, both materially and economically, inherent in these types of developments and suggests a cluster or regional approach to electronics recycling efforts in general. The practice of life cycle assessment has been well documented as a tool for comparing products and processes 
or comparing various components within a life cycle. This paper addresses the question of how changes can be made once an assessment has been completed, such as identifying the improvements that can be made to address environmental problems and to decrease impacts on human health and the environment. Green chemistry, a fairly recent approach that addresses environmental concerns at a fundamental level, has already demonstrated examples of what we call 'life cycle innovation', that is, improvements at all stages of the product or process life cycle. This paper explores various applications of green chemistry methodologies to all stages of a product or process life cycle.In this paper, a life-cycle assessment methodology is used to evaluate the environmental effects of cement-concrete system. The production factors notably affecting environment are obtained and the way improving environmental effects is indicated.The authors develop a methodological framework for the environmental assessment of materials recycling systems. Typically such systems exhibit both dynamic and non-linear behaviour. By contrast, many existing environmental assessment techniques (such as Life Cycle Assessment and Materials Flow Analysis) employ a static linear model of the underlying system. This paper first reviews some of the attempts to develop dynamic non-linear models for materials systems. It then discusses the structural peculiarities of recycling systems drawing attention in particular to the presence of dynamic features (such as time lags between production and disposal) and non-linearities (such as the dependency of scrap collection energies on the flow of material through the recycling loop). The principal analytic task of this paper is to construct an illustrative case study, in which different modelling techniques are used to assess the energy requirements of a hypothetical recycling system possessing both dynamic and non-linear features. The difference in system energy intensity derived using the different types of model are analysed. Finally, the paper discusses the policy implications of these results. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Like radioactive waste, municipal solid waste (MSW) requires consideration of a complex mix of intergenerational and intragenerational risks surrounded by uncertain science. Unlike radioactive waste, MSW is a common problem and hence one often perceived to be controllable, at least until a required facility is proposed in a particular community. The intragenerational risks focused on local communities rouse intense public pressures for management. Although some of the risks can be quantified, the risk assessment process cannot deal with all questions. This article examines the multiple dimensions of the decisions required to be made and the weaknesses of a number of decision tools traditionally used. A case is made for the need to integrate decision tools appropriate to the risks into reflexive and iterative decision processes open to public involvement. It is argued that this presents the best hope of both optimizing decisions about the intragenerational risks as well as raising public debate about the importance of sustainable waste management in transgenerational terms.Solid waste management needs to be environmentally sustainable to reduce overall environmental burdens. It also needs to be economic
ally sustainable to be affordable for all sectors of the community served. Integrated waste management (IWM) takes an overall approach to this, involves the use of a range of different treatment options and deals with the entire waste stream. The tool of Life Cycle Inventory (the goal definition and inventory stages of a Life Cycle Assessment) can successfully be applied to integrated waste management systems to assess their environmental burdens. Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) tools for solid waste management have been available for some time. Several models have been developed and applied to both theoretical and actual waste management strategies. This report reviews a case study where a Life Cycle Inventory model was applied in the development of an integrated approach to waste management.The service sector in the U.S. economy accounts for twice the monetary output of manufacturing and is typically perceived as less damaging to the environment than manufacturing sectors. We use an Economic Input-Output Life-Cycle Assessment model (EIO-LCA) to assess both the direct and indirect (supply chain) effects of services on the economy and the environment. As expected, environmental emissions and wastes generated directly by service providers are small per dollar of output, and energy use per dollar output is lower for services than for most manufacturing industries. However, with such a large share of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the impacts of services have become a significant component of overall U.S. emissions, wastes, and energy consumption. For several environmental metrics (e.g., hazardous waste generation), service industries have significant indirect environmental effects on an economy-wide basis even when their direct emissions are negligible. When an average annual "market basket" of goods and services is purchased by an average consumer in the U.S., the amount spent on manufactured goods is about 25% greater than that spent on services, hut the environmental effects associated with manufacturing are about two to three times that of services. To investigate services in more detail, four representative service industries were analyzed: trucking and courier services, retail trade, colleges and universities, and hotels. Some results are expected, such as the high direct consumption of electricity, the low direct emission of toxic chemicals, and the low direct generation of hazardous wastes. We demonstrate that the supply chain environmental effects associated with these four services are more significant and merit further consideration. A better understanding of these impacts will encourage service providers to consider more carefully the environmental implications of their supply chain.Refinery products serve as the source for a significant portion of energy use and industrial chemicals. Assessing the variability and reliability of the life cycle inventory (LCI) data for the refinery process is an important issue for the acceptance of life cycle studies. The purpose of this research is to review and compare the LCI results for refinery products among several available databases, evaluating the level of variability and technical consistency among data sets. Another objective is to highlight the need for greater transparency and standardization in LCI databases. We found important links between the type or media of emissions and the un
it processes found in typical refineries. The variability of estimated emissions to the atmosphere is approximately 50-150%, while variability in aqueous discharges is higher, approaching 1000%. Variability for solid emissions is on the order of 30%. This variability is believed to be related to the preparation and summary use of individual practitioner databases and not to the actual primary variations among refineries. Some variations clearly reflect technically incorrect data. Improvement of refinery LCI information can be achieved by the research and user communities devoting effort to produce credible, representative LCI data for this critical manufacturing unit. Greater transparency would significantly improve specific areas of LCI assessment, as many of the current databases are highly nontransparent, thus allowing errors to be undetected. The central role of refinery LCI data in life cycle assessment argues strongly for practitioners to develop more representative and less variable LCI information.Assessing the environmental risk of novel technological systems and of the European Union (EU) policies supporting them and regulating their implementation requires good understanding of (i) the pressure on the environment posed by the large-scale use of new technology, and (ii) the vulnerability of the receptor of this pressure. Generic life-cycle assessments (LCAs) provide exhaustive accounting of environmental pressure, yet they do not take into account the vulnerability of the receiving ecosystem. Generic studies of technology externalities fail to produce conclusions on the impacts in a certain area of the systems envisaged due to lack of site-specific information. The combined use of generic (LCA) and spatially referenced data offers new opportunities for comprehensively analysing the environmental impact of novel technologies. A novel information fusion methodology is suggested. Example applications are presented herein focusing on the evaluation of renewable energy technologies as an example of the implementation of meso-scale LCA for integrated environmental risk assessment of EU technology policies. (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.In the absence of direct sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (i.e. combustion), other sources of emission become dominant in so-called 'emission-free' power plants. In this study the indirect GHG emissions, related to construction of nuclear plants, windfarms and photovoltaic plants, are estimated with two different types of life-cycle assessment. The process-chain analysis divides an investment good into its material components (tons of material) and then unravels the entire production process of each material product. The energy required in, and the GHG emissions related to, the construction of the power plant are obtained by integration over all process steps and summation over all material products. The input/output analysis looks at the different economic sectors called on in the construction of the power plant. The sectors that represent a part of the total cost of the power plant are responsible for the amount of energy used (and the corresponding GHG emissions) to deliver their final product. A result is provided by detailed analysis of all relevant sectors and fitting them into the construction phase. Using similar techniques, energy use and GHG emissions related to maintenan
ce and demolition, including storage of nuclear equipment, can be quantified. For construction, maintenance and demolition of these power plants, following orders of magnitude are obtained: nuclear: 40kJ(prim)/kWh(el), 3g(CO2)/kWh(el); wind(coast): 120kJ(prim)/kWh(el), 9g(CO2)/kWh(el); wind(inland): 350kJ(prim)/kWh(el), 25g(CO2)/kWh(el); PV(1998): 3000kJ(prim)/kWh(el), 130g(CO2)/kWh(el); PV(near future): 1500kJ(prim)/kWh(el) and 60g(CO2)/kWh(el). (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.On May 25-26, 2000 in Brighton (England), the third in a series of international workshops was held under the umbrella of UNEP addressing issues in Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA). The workshop provided a forum for experts to discuss midpoint vs. endpoint modeling. Midpoints are considered to be links in the cause-effect chain (environmental mechanism) of an impact category, prior to the endpoints, at which characterization factors or indicators can be derived to reflect the relative importance of emissions or extractions. Common examples of midpoint characterization factors include ozone depletion potentials, global warming potentials, and photochemical ozone (smog) creation potentials. Recently, however, some methodologies have adopted characterization factors at an endpoint level in the cause-effect chain for all categories of impact (e. g., human health impacts in terms of disability adjusted life years for carcinogenicity, climate change, ozone depletion, photochemical ozone creation; or impacts in terms of changes in biodiversity, etc.). The topics addressed at this workshop included the implications of midpoint versus endpoint indicators with respect to uncertainty (parameter, model and scenario), transparency and the ability to subsequently resolve trade-offs across impact categories using weighting techniques. The workshop closed with a consensus that both midpoint and endpoint methodologies provide useful information to the decision maker, prompting the call for tools that include both in a consistent framework.To date, numerous simplified Life Cycle Assessment methods and techniques have been developed to reduce complexities associated with practical application. However, these methods often identify critical elements according to subjective considerations. In this paper, we develop and apply a new type of Life Cycle Inventory method - Component Manufacturing Analysis (CMA) - that is easy to implement and less arbitrary. Application of CMA requires identificfition of all product components and their associated weights, which are then entered into a factory-type database. Because the factory database has a rigorous yet generic structure and because calculation is done automatically, the application of CMA tends to be less arbitrary and more complete than other simplified methods. Results of a case study on beverage vending machines show that the manufacturing stage is a significant phase in the whole life-cycle inventory of a product. We conclude that CMA shows promise for further development and future application.For an accurate assessment of the toxic effects of chemicals during their life cycle, LCA developers try more and more to include chemical fate into the life-cycle impact assessment (LCIA) procedure. In this study the application of multi-media partitioning models within LCIA is discussed. With the case of textile chemica
ls as an example, USES-LCA and a simple river model (box approach) are compared according to their practicability and the value added to the assessment results. It is shown that emissions from the supply and use of energy still dominate the LCIA results even if ecotoxicity is assessed with a rather complex fate model such as USES-LCA. Second, the treatment of modelling results is addressed for persistent substances with low or unknown toxicity. A possible approach to include such chemicals into valuation is to define an exposure-based impact category additionally to the existing effect-oriented ones (toxicity scores) or a combination of differenr methods. A combined presentation of results from complementary tools is proposed, providing a more detailed background for decision making while avoiding aggregation and leaving the final weighting between the categories to the user.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a method that can be used to assess the environmental impact of agriculture, but impact categories and the functional unit of classical LCA's must be adapted to the specific agricultural production process. Serving as an example, the framework of a LCA of 18 grassland dairy farms covering three farming intensity levels and carried out in the Allgau region in southern Germany is presented. By focussing on the chosen impact categories and the respective, suitable functional units, the specific needs and backgrounds of conducting an agricultural LCA are discussed in general.Nitrogen compounds emitted from the field are usually considered in Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) of agricultural products or processes. The environmentally most important of these N emissions are ammonia (NH3), nitrous oxide (N2O) and nitrate (NO3). The emission rates are variable due to the influence of soil type, climatic conditions and agricultural management practices. Due to considerable financial and time efforts, and great variations in the results, actual measurements of emissions are neither practical nor appropriate for LCA purposes. Instead of measurements, structured methods can be used to estimate average emission rates. Another possibility is the use of values derived from the literature which would, however, require considerable effort compared to estimation methods, especially because the values might only be valid for the particular system under investigation. In this paper methods to determine estimates for NH3, N2O and NO3 emissions were selected from a literature review. Different procedures were chosen to estimate NH3 emissions from organic (HORLACHER & MARSCHNER, 1990) and mineral fertilizers (ECETOC, 1994). To calculate the N2O emissions, a function derived by Bouwman (1995) was selected. A method developed by the German Soil Science Association (DBG, 1992) was adopted to determine potential NO3 emissions. None of the methods are computer-based and consequently require only a minimum set of input data. This makes them, on the one hand, transparent and easy to perform, while, on the other hand, they certainly simplify the complex processes.The Return on Environment ( ROE) is developed, and tested, as an objective indicator to support the results of Life Cycle Assessments. It is based on the observation that a ratio of life cycle costs incurred throughout the extraction, transport, manufacturing, use and disposal stages, to the selling price, appears
 to scale linearly with a quantitative impact assessment. ROE is therefore a normalization method which permits comparison of new assessments with existing data, even from products with quite different characteristics. It can, alternatively, be applied to estimate either the life cycle cost, or quantify environmental impact, provided the other is known. Like its economic cousin, the return on investment, cases studied typically have ROEs in over the range of 2-20%. ROE is intended as a preliminary estimation method, akin to engineering costing, which has a precision of +/- 30%. As such, it can be used to rapidly determine if a more detailed cost assessment can be justified and, if so, where the efforts should be oriented. ROE is a measurable life cycle index intended to render LCAs more suitable for decision making. A further benefit that ROE provides is the guidance to a life cycle practitioner, or product development team, to assess if sufficient data has been collected, or if costs and impacts have been over or under-estimated. It has advantages over specific ecoindicators, such as manufacturing energy or waste emissions, which are both product specific and subjective. The Return on Environment also serves as a systematic index for reporting improvements or as a relative environmental rating.Explorations of the LCA practice have been less numerous compared to the conceptual descriptions of LCA. To counter this imbalance, studies of LCA projects conducted in Swedish industry were carried out. One of them is in a chemical company, the other in an electronics company. The studied LCA projects represent early attempts, but not first attempts, at LCA within these two companies. The two studied cases are contrasted with each other and aspects important for the implementation of LCA are identified. Among other things, the presence of an LCA entrepreneur seems to be important for LCA implementation. The argumentation for the usefulness of LCA needs to be situationally adapted to each organisation. Strategies of the LCA entrepreneur are described.For the utilisation of an energy carrier such as lignite, the whole life cycle including necessary energy supply processes have to be considered. Therefore using the 'Cumulative Energy Demand' (CED) is especially suited to determine and compare the energy intensity of processes. The goal of the CED is to calculate the total primary energy input for the generation of a product, taking into account the pertinent front-end process chains. So the CED is in many steps similar to the LCA, especially in the 'inventory analysis step'. The statements of the CED for energy supply-systems are concerned with the (primary) energy-efficiency of the energy supply and pointing out the life cycle steps with high energy-resources demand. Due to the great environmental impacts of energy supply and use which have to be laboriously assessed in LCA, the CED provides a useful, additional, energy-related 'screening-indicator' to LCA. This case study analyses the extraction of lignite in an opencast mine in West-Germany as the first step of energy carrier provision. Our data for the inventory analysis arise from a measuring campaign about the period of one year. The results underline the great energy demand of lignite extraction in West-Germany. With reference to the energy contents of lignite, the fraction of primary energy d
emands for its' mining amounts to about 6.2%. This accounts to 93.8 % of the lignite energy content being available as usable energy for further processes, which is obviously worse than other studies have shown.This study provides a benchmark of the life cycle environmental impact characteristics associated with a typical soy-based ink used for sheetfed lithographic printing. The scope included a streamlined Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) and Impact Assessment (LCIA). Materials, processes, and life cycle stages that are the same between different printing inks, or were less than one percent by mass of the printing system input materials, were excluded. The LCIA included identification of specific processes in the life cycle of soy-based ink printing that make the greatest contribution to the overall environmental hazard potential in 13 impact categories for the baseline printing system selected. The LCIA approach included both regional scaling for areas that differ in sensitivity to certain impact indicators and normalization against a reference value. Reduction in the use of tall oil rosin and switching from conventional to low or no-till farming appear to be promising opportunities for reducing the environmental hazard potential.This study uses the TRNSYS computer program for the modeling and simulation of the energy flows of the modern houses of Cyprus followed by an energy consumption analysis. For the calculations. a Typical Meteorological Year for the Nicosia area and a typical model house are used. Initially, the Cyprus energy scene and an analysis of the number of houses employing heating and cooling equipment is presented from which it is observed that the number of systems installed has increased tremendously during the last decade. The results of the simulation show that the inside house temperature, when no air-conditioning is used, varies between 10-20 degrees C for winter and between 30-50 degrees C for summer. The effect on the temperature and the heating and cooling loads that various wall and roof constructions present is determined. This investigation indicates the importance of the roof insulation, which results in a reduction up to 45.5% of the cooling load and up to 75% of the heating load. The effect of mechanical ventilation, window shading, as well as that of the inclined concrete roof used for aesthetic reasons, is also examined. The life cycle analysis is used for the economic analysis of the various constructions. The results indicate that the wall insulation pays back in a twenty year period with marginal savings, whereas the roof insulation has considerable economic benefit, with life cycle savings up to EUR 22374 depending on the type of construction. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This study describes the basic design/evaluation of a combined cycle power generation system using solid oxide fuel cells in conjunction with a gas turbine. Factors included are system performance and cost/energy pay-back times (CPT/EPT). Total generation efficiency (E-th) was analyzed from the standpoint of plant size, cell performance, working pressure/temperature, steam carbon ratio, fuel/air utilization ratios (U-f/U-a) and turbine inlet temperature (TIT). A calculation method for determining the system life cycle cost and input energy requirements is also proposed. Results show that Eth is higher than that for 
conventional power plants; it has a working temperature/pressure of 1073 K/0.4 MPa, E-th = 68.3% with CPT = 9.3 years and EPT = 0.71 years with load following capability from 60 to 121% nominal load. The main parameters for determining Eth, CPT and EPT were found to be working temperature, cell performance, U-a and TIT limitation. Also discussed in detail are development areas and targets. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Recent years have seen a world-wide change in the environmental policy towards integrated pollution prevention, taking into account all environmental media. Consequently, the environmental assessment of production techniques has to consider multiple criteria which cannot be aggregated to one single index. The concepts of Multi Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) seem a suitable means in order to implement Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) into integrated decision processes. The outranking methods as a special subgroup of MCDM methods are particularly suitable for integral decision making through the notion of weak preference and incomparability, which better represent the real decision situation, as demonstrated in this paper. Especially the outranking method PROMETHEE brings together flexibility and simplicity for the user and is therefore chosen for the enhancement towards the evaluation of fuzzy data on preferences, scores and weights. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Mining and metallurgical processing companies that have adopted the principles of good environmental management often fund it difficult to carry out an environmental assessment that yields meaningful opportunities for improved performance. This topic was investigated by means of a case study of a South African Base Metal Refinery (BMR) producing primarily nickel. A process-based Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was carried out on the refining process, with the environmental impacts related to the production of reagents and utilities forming part of the assessment. The life cycle inventory (LCI) was based on plant operating data spanning 31 months of production, from which a baseline environmental profile could be generated and Interpreted to indicate the main sources of potential environmental impacts. Consequently, opportunities for improved environmental performance could be Identified from the LCA model, which expressly related potential environmental liability to specific sub-processes in the assessed industrial operation. The on-site steam plant was found to be the primary source of potential environmental impacts in most of the impact categories considered. In closing, the paper discusses some of the limitations encountered in use of the LCA method.A view is presented on future BF-BOF type and EF type steelmaking plants. The former and the latter include, respectively, rationalized process steps for a mass production and small lot production of quality steels at reduced costs. Integration of the 2 types of plants is discussed for better synergy effects. Emphasis is placed on minimizing the consumption of primary energy and evolution of wastes such as dust, slag and gases, with a consideration given for maximized utilization of the wastes. Metallurgical key issues for future R & D to achieve improved productivity and wastes evolution are also suggested.The present study has been done in the framework of the European Project IMAG
E (Implementation of Advanced Glazing systems in Europe) and offers to the glass industry, engineers, architects and all people dealing with energy in buildings a reliable indicator of the environmental impact of advanced windows: their global environmental impact, which includes an Life Cycle Assessment analysis of the glazing system production/maintenance phase and a thermal balance of its utilisation phase. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science S.A. All rights reserved.We examine the economic and environmental implications of the fuels and propulsion technologies that will be available over the next two decades for powering a large proportion of the light duty fleet (cars and light trucks). Since R&D change is rapid, we treat the uncertainty about future technologies using bounding calculations. A lifecycle perspective is used to analyze fossil fuels [conventional unleaded and reformulated gasolines, low sulfur reformulated diesel, and compressed natural gas (CNG)], ethanol from biomass, and electricity together with current and advanced internal combustion engines (ICE, indirect (port) and direct injection, spark, and compression ignited) and electric vehicles (battery-powered, hybrid electric, and fuel cell). Technological advances continue to improve the efficiency and environmental performance of ICE automobiles powered by low sulfur fossil fuels. Absent a doubling of petroleum prices or stringent regulation [due, for example, to intense concerns about greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions], ICE using fossil fuels will dominate the market for the next two decades. CNG cars have low emissions, including GHG, but must be redesigned to store enough CNG to achieve the current range. Battery powered cars have limited range and are expensive, and the life-cycle of battery components leads to discharges of toxic materials. Although both hybrid and fuel cell vehicles promise better fuel economy and lower emissions, in the near term these do not justify their higher costs. If global warming becomes a major concern, CNG offers carbon dioxide emission reductions of up to 30%, and bioethanol could provide a fuel with no net carbon dioxide emissions, although the bioethanol price would be more than twice current petroleum prices.This paper describes a comparative life cycle assessment (LCA) of a new Business Communication 10 (BC 10) and an old Business Communication 8 (BC 8) model of the private branch exchange Modular Digital 110 (MD 110), designed and sold by Ericsson Enterprise AB (EE) and produced by Flextronics, in this case for the European Union (EU) market. LCA is a technique for assessing the environmental aspects and potential impact associated with a product's whole life cycle from the "cradle to grave". The study meets the requirements of the standards International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) 14040:1997 English (E), ISO 14041:1998 E and the draft standards ISO/Draft International Standard (DIS) 14042 and ISO/DIS 14043 and was critically reviewed by Henrik Wenzel, Instituttet for ProduktUdvikling (The Institute for Product Development, IPU) in Denmark. The modelling of the system includes manufacturing (hardware and EE's organisation), use stage (electricity consumption), end-of-life (recycling processes) and transports. Electronic devices axe modelled in depth (16 groups of components) and data from over 40 suppliers have been collected. E
E's organisation (development, marketing & sales, supply, installation, service and maintenance) is modelled for the use of offices and business travelling. The following main conclusions of the project are based on results for potential contributions to the environmental impact categories acidification, global warming and eutrophication, which were chosen to be the most relevant. The environmental impact improvements of the new model compared to the old are approximately 10%, and the uncertainty of the results is judged to be smaller than the difference between the systems. The use stage and the manufacturing stage give the largest impacts, both for the new and the old model. In the manufacturing stage, the hardware production clearly dominates. EE's organisation is secondly most important and hardware transport is least important. This is due to more environmental load from service and business travelling in the organisation than environmental load arising from the distribution of the product. The results predominantly reflect energy use, whereas toxicological aspects could not be reliably assessed due to lack of data and reliable methods and needs separate attention. The technology improvements shown for BC 10 compared to BC 8 only describe design improvements made by EE, and do not take into account potential technology production improvements made by component suppliers.In response to market demands for credible and comprehensive environmental information associated with the life cycle of products, the CPPA and TerraChoice Environmental Services Inc. developed an Environmental Profile Program for pulp and paper products. The program's reporting mechanism,the Environmental Profile Data Sheet (EPDS)(TM) provides a standard, cost-effective and understandable method to provide environmental information to customers. The EPDS is based on a holistic consideration of the raw material acquisition and manufacturing stages of the product life cycle, incorporates risk assessment and environmental management systems, and is supported by third-party independent verification.Toxicity potentials are standard values used in life cycle assessment (LCA) to enable a comparison of toxic impacts between substances. In most cases, toxicity potentials are calculated with multi-media fate models. Until now, unrealistic system settings were used for these calculations. The present paper outlines an improved model to calculate toxicity potentials: the global nested multi-media fate, exposure and effects model USES-LCA.(1) It is based on the Uniform System for the Evaluation of Substances 2.0 (USES 2.0). USES-LCA was used to calculate for 181 substances toxicity potentials for the six impact categories freshwater aquatic ecotoxicity, marine aquatic ecotoxicity, freshwater sediment ecotoxicity, marine sediment ecotoxicity, terrestrial ecotoxicity and human toxicity, after initial emission to the compartments air, freshwater, seawater, industrial soil and agricultural soil, respectively. Differences of several orders of magnitude were found between the new toxicity potentials and those calculated previously. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Toxicity potentials are standard values used in life cycle assessment (LCA) to enable a comparison of toxic impacts between substances. This paper presents the results of an uncertainty assessment of toxicit
y potentials that were calculated with the global nested multi-media fate, exposure and effects model USES-LCA. The variance in toxicity potentials resulting from input parameter uncertainties and human variability was quantified by means of Monte Carlo analysis with Latin Hypercube sampling (LHS). For Atrazine, 2,3,7,8-TCDD and Lead, variation, expressed by the ratio of the 97.5%-ile and the 2.5%-ile, ranges from about 1.5 to 6 orders of magnitude. The major part of this variation originates from a limited set of substance-specific input parameters, i.e. parameters that describe transport mechanisms, substance degradation, indirect exposure routes and no-effect concentrations. Considerable correlations were found between the toxicity potentials of one substance, in particular within one impact category. The uncertainties and correlations reported in the present study may have a significant impact on the outcome of LCA case studies. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Various authors have stated that Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) differs fundamentally from product Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). This paper shows the contrary. LCA is a specific elaboration of a generic environmental evaluation framework. EIA is a procedure rather than a tool, in which LCA certainly may be useful. Particularly in strategic and project EIAs, environmental comparisons of process and abatement alternatives may be relevant. Although these alternatives may lead to different emissions and effects at the location of the process itself (which is usually the focus in project EIAs), they can also influence the demand for activities upstream and downstream in the production chain. Including such secondary effects in an EIA, which may be crucial for a proper comparison of alternatives, requires a system approach that takes into account all relevant effects. This is, in fact, LCA. A review of five case studies shows that it is quite feasible to use elements of LCA in EIA. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.LCA (Life cycle assessment) is a tool to evaluate quantitatively the resource consumption, the environmental loads and impacts of a product throughout its life cycle. The purpose of the present work is to establish how to evaluate the effect of recycling of materials and how to predict the environmental loads of new materials by a prospective application of LCA. Beverage cans were chosen as an evaluating object for LCA in which the recycling rate of a material of a steel or aluminum can was changed. A fictitious process for a stainless steel can was also analyzed in order to search the feasibility of the new material for a beverage can. In the absence of recycling, the energy consumption and the CO2, SOx, NOx emissions for the aluminum can are much higher than those for the steel product. The recycling of materials changes the situation, because the environmental loads for the aluminum can are reduced much higher than those for the steel can. As for the stainless can, it was shown that the environmental loads for the system are comparable to the conventional beverage cans when the can is decreased in thickness and fully recycled. In conclusion, it is emphasized that the decrease in environmental loads can be achieved by the combination of the selection of recyclable materials and the development of production technology.Multimedia f
ate and exposure models are widely used to regulate the release of toxic chemicals, to set cleanup standards for contaminated sites, and to evaluate emissions in life-cycle assessment. CalTOX, one of these models, is used to calculate the potential dose, an outcome that is combined with the toxicity of the chemical to determine the Human Toxicity Potential (HTP), used to aggregate and compare emissions. The comprehensive assessment of the uncertainty in the potential dose calculation in this article serves to provide the information necessary to evaluate the reliability of decisions based on the HTP. A framework for uncertainty analysis in multimedia risk assessment is proposed and evaluated with four types of uncertainty. Parameter uncertainty is assessed through Monte Carlo analysis. The variability in landscape parameters is assessed through a comparison of potential dose calculations for different regions in the United States. Decision rule uncertainty is explored through a comparison of the HTP values under open and closed system boundaries. Model uncertainty is evaluated through two case studies, one using alternative formulations for calculating the plant concentration and the other testing the steady state assumption for wet deposition. This investigation shows that steady state conditions for the removal of chemicals from the atmosphere are not appropriate and result in an underestimate of the potential dose for 25% of the 336 chemicals evaluated.Process design requires the simultaneous satisfaction of environmental, economic and social goals. This invariably requires some trade off between these objectives. The challenge for process design engineers is to develop synthesis and analysis tools, which support this requirement. Process System Engineering (PSE) techniques for multiple objective optimisation have to date focused typically on the optimisation of cost versus the potential for waste minimisation, with the recent inclusion of operability issues. The incorporation of environmental sensitivity into PSE approaches has been less than satisfactory. Much of this stems from the (seeming) difficulty in translating process information to environmental objectives. It is our argument that life cycle assessment (LCA), a methodology for quantifying the full 'cradle-to-grave' impact of industrial processes, can be used to assist in developing environmental objectives for process design and analysis. In this paper, we restrict our analysis to the multiple objective optimisation of environmental and economic objectives. Our approach is demonstrated for the case study of a nitric acid plant, modeled using Hysys(R). The general approach entails the transfer of mass and energy information from the Hysys(R) model to the optimisation algorithm. Environmental objectives, based on the Hysys(R) model, are formulated first using a life cycle assessment toolbox. The multi-objective formulation of the process combines economic objectives with the LCA-based environmental objectives. The optimiser routine uses goal programming to identify the Pareto surface of non inferior solutions for this situation, thereby making explicit what trade-off between economic and environmental objectives results from any preferred operating condition. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In the 1990s, significant progress was made in process synthesis con
cerning environmental issues, however the routine design procedures stay almost the same as before. This paper attempts to summarize the developments of this area in the last 10 years in order to remind chemical engineers of what has been accomplished to date and what should be possible in the near future from an industrial viewpoint. After discussing some original concepts and hierarchies, two aspects of conceptual design, synthesis of reaction paths and process flowsheet, are highlighted for environmental impact minimization. Finally, several points are identified for future research. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Making process systems engineering decisions that are ecologically conscious requires analysis of both industrial and ecological processes. Traditional methods in process engineering usually fall short of meeting this requirement due to considering the environment as secondary to economic objectives. Life cycle assessment and design methods have broadened the scope of traditional methods by considering the environmental impact in the entire life cycle of a product or process. These methods focus primarily on the environmental impact of emissions and ignore the contribution of ecological products and services. This paper presents a thermodynamic approach for including the input from both ecological and economic resources, and for analyzing industrial and ecological processes together. This approach is based on the fact that growth and sustenance of both industrial and ecological processes are limited by the available energy and its conversion to useful work. Thus, the embodied energy (emergy), that is, the energy used directly or indirectly to make a product or service is a measure of ecological cost. Emergy analysis of industrial and ecological processes provides insight into the environmental performance and sustainability of the industrial process or product. Emergy-based life cycle assessment is developed to combine the benefits of both methods. The proposed framework is broadly applicable and is illustrated by the emergy based life cycle assessment of soy bean growth. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Despite numerous actions worldwide which call for adoption of more sustainable strategies, relatively little has been done on a practical level so far on the pretext that the issue is too complex and not fully understood. This paper follows the argument that it is important that today's decision-makers address the issue of sustainability, however imperfectly, as ignoring it may only exacerbate the problem for future generations. In particular, the paper concentrates on measuring the level of sustainability of industry with the aim of further informing the debate in this area. It proposes a general framework with a relatively simple, yet comprehensive set of indicators for identification of more sustainable practices for industry. The indicators cover the three aspects of sustainability-environmental, economic and social-and among others, include environmental impacts, financial and ethical indicators. The framework is applicable across industry; however, more specific indicators for different sectors have to be defined separately, on a case-by-case basis. It allows a modular approach for gradual incorporation of the framework into the organizational structure. The life cycle approach ensu
res that the most important stages in the life cycle and their impacts are identified and targeted for improvements. The framework also provides a link between micro- and macro-aspects of sustainable development through appropriate indicators. Thus, it serves as a tool which can assist companies in assessing their performance with regard to goals and objectives embedded in the idea of sustainable development.Integrated Waste Management is one of the holistic approaches to environmental and resource management which are emerging from applying the concept of sustainable development. Assessment of waste management options requires application of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). This paper summarizes the methodology for applying LCA to Integrated Waste Management of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) developed for and now used by the UK Environment Agency, including recent developments in international fora. Particular attention is devoted to system definition leading to rational and clear compilation of the Life Cycle Inventory, with appropriate 'credit' for recovering materials and/or energy from the waste. LCA of waste management is best seen as a way of structuring information to help decision processes.The environmental aspects of different waste management options for paper materials are the subject of an ongoing debate. A large number of life cycle assessments have been performed in order to study the topic. The comparison between recycling and incineration with energy recovery is often in focus. Different studies have arrived at different conclusions due to differences in the methods applied and assumptions made in the Life cycle inventory analysis (LCI). Key factors for the LCI results include what energy is replaced by incinerated waste paper, what material is replaced by recycled fibres, how the pulpwood savings are used, what external energy carrier is used for the recycling process, and what environmental burdens are associated with a change in the electricity demand. These factors can be investigated for different decision contexts and from different ethical, time and geographical perspectives. Different choices are appropriate for different decisions and perspectives. Hence, to obtain an adequate conclusion, the comparison needs to be specified in terms of what perspectives are relevant.Green chemistry not only emphasizes the central production process of the "green" chemical, but it ultimately requires a life-cycle conceptual approach for each chemical product. A life-cycle conceptual approach comprises the consideration of all stages along the life cycle of a chemical (i.e., raw material extraction, pre-production, production, use, recycling, and disposal) as well as the consideration of environmental impacts caused by by-products and auxiliaries (such as solvents and additives, but also technical facilities which have to be provided to produce the green chemical). A significant improvement in the evaluation of green chemical products can be approached by the complementary use of the methodologies of life-cycle assessment (LCA) and risk assessment. The use and combination of both methodologies can be performed by a separate use of the instruments (depending on the scope, definition, and application of LCA), an iterative use of LCA and risk assessment, or a complete integration of both instruments. Pros and cons of these approaches are d
iscussed.This paper concentrates on the assessment of energy and emissions related to the production and manufacture of materials for an offshore wind farm as well as a wind farm on land based on a life cycle analysis (LCA) model. In Denmark a model has been developed for life cycle assessments of different materials. The model is able to assess the energy use related to the production, transportation and manufacture of 1 kg of material. The energy use is divided into fuels used in order to estimate the emissions through the life cycle. In the paper the model and the attached assumptions are described, and the model is demonstrated for two wind farms. The externalities for the wind farms are reported, showing the importance of life cycle assessment for renewable energy technologies. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The study presents an estimation of the energy input and the amount of emissions to air due to fuel, chainsaw and hydraulic oil consumption by heavy duty diesel engine vehicles operating in forest logging operations in Sweden. Exhaust concentrations are given for carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter. Three fuel types (rapeseed methyl ester, environmental class 1 and environmental class 3 diesel fuels) and two types of lubricating base oil (mineral- and vegetable-based) were examined. Energy input per unit of timber production (m(3)ub) was 82 MJ, 11% of which was due to energy consumption during the production phase of the fuel. Emissions during the whole life cycle of the fuels and the base oils are included in the study. The highest CO, and NO, emissions occurred when rapeseed methyl ester was used as fuel together with rapeseed as base oil for chainsaw and hydraulic oil. The highest HC and CO emissions occurred when environmental class 3 diesel fuel was used. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used to evaluate environmental burdens associated with a product, process or activity by identifying and quantifying relevant inputs and outputs of the defined system and evaluating their potential impacts. This article outlines the four components that comprise LCA (goal definition, inventory, impact assessment and interpretation) and addresses various applications of LCA within industry and government. Included are references to several resources that may be used to better understand and apply LCA, such as books, journals, software programs and internet websites.Beginning with the goal and scope definition five different fender designs using steel, aluminum, PP/EPDM, PC/PBT and PPO/PA are described and the boundary conditions set. This exemplary case study demonstrates the general approach and beneficial uses of life cycle assessment and life cycle engineering. The inventory of the fenders shows that the steel design has advantages in terms of lower energy consumption during production. However, when the utilization phase of the fenders is considered, the overall energy consumption of the PP/EPDM fender is smaller due to the slight weight of the this polymer design. Concerning the life cycle impact assessment (LCIA), the global warming potential of the PP/EPDM design is the smallest of all the fender materials even during the production of the fenders. The inventory analysis shows that the utilization phase of automotive p
arts is dominated by fuel consumption and related emissions like CO2. Nevertheless the LCIA shows that some impacts are mainly determined in the production phase. For example, the global warming potential of nitrous oxide (N2O) released during PPO/PA material production cannot be compensated for the lower energy demand (and also lower CO2 emissions) during the utilization phase. Economic considerations are also discussed. As a parameter, the cost of parts was chosen. Parts costs depend on material costs, labor costs and other variable costs. In addition, the fixed costs for machines and tools were considered. Steel fenders have the smallest production costs, followed by the PP/EPDM design. Finally, in an overall valuation of the compared fender designs the best design considering primary energy demand, global warming potential, and part costs was investigated. In terms of the specified criteria, the PP/EPDM fender is the best design, however, the results lead to a variety of different conclusions.Metrics (potentials, potency factors, equivalency factors or characterization factors) are available to support the environmental comparison of alternatives in application domains like process design and product life-cycle assessment (LCA). These metrics typically provide relative insights into the implicit concern associated with chemicals, emissions and resource consumption in the context of human health, ecological health and resource depletion. The approaches used to derive the metrics range in their Site-specificity, complexity, comprehensiveness, sophistication and uncertainty. It is therefore often necessary to consider the use of more than one approach within the context of a given impact category to help support a decision. In this paper we outline some of the strengths and weaknesses of available approaches in the commonly considered categories of global warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, tropospheric ozone (smog) creation, eutrophication/nutrification, acidification, toxicological impacts and resource depletion.Life Cycle Interpretation "is a systematic technique to identify, quantify, check, and evaluate information from the results of the life cycle inventory (LCI) and/or the life cycle impact assessment (LCIA)... "[1] The purpose of performing life cycle interpretation is to determine the level of confidence in the final results and communicate them in a fair, complete, and accurate manner. Interpreting the results of a life cycle assessment (LCA) is not as Simple as 3 is better then 2, therefore Alternative A is the best choice! Interpreting the results of an LCA starts with understanding the accuracy of the results, and ensuring they meet the goal of the study. This is accomplished by identifying the data elements that contribute significantly to each impart category, evaluating the sensitivity of these significant data elements, assessing the completeness & consistency of the study, and drawing conclusions and recommendations based on a clear understanding of how the LCA was conducted and the results were developed. The guidance provided in this article builds from the information provided on life cycle interpretation in the International Organization of Standards (ISO's) draft standard entitled "Environmental Management - Life Cycle Assessment - Life Cycle Interpretation, "ISO/DIS 14043.The article deals with the weighting 
step in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Different weighting methods are briefly described, and four operational such methods (Ecoscarcity 97, EDIP Ecoindicator 99, and EPS 2000d) are applied to a simplified case to illustrate how they can contribute with additional information to the environmental assessment and decision making process. It is argued that the use of weighting ran contribute to the relevance and acceptability of LCA results, but that the weighting step should be seen as a test of the compatibility between environmental impact profiles and different value profiles rather than as a procedure leading to a true measure of the aggregated impact. The authors also discuss some issues of controversy connected to weighting, as well as the practical implications of the ISO standard for weighting in LCA.The U.S. EPA hds developed guidance for the use of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)for environmentally preferable purchasing. To support the guidance development pilot studies were performed, one of which is described here. The study was performed in only four months, using simplified impact assessment methodologies. It showed that one product was environmentally preferable. This pilot demonstrated that LCA's are feasible for the purpose of purchasing decisions.The U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) decisions regarding D&D, waste management, and the selection of technologies for R, D&D are extremely complex. Historically, DOE decisions were based primarily on meeting near-term goals. There is evidence that some of those decisions were not optimal in terms of minimizing costs or in terms of minimizing overall environment and health impacts. Fortunately, DOE is currently embracing the principles of life cycle analysis (LCA) in its decision-making. The results indicate that DOE is making better decisions since implementing the principles of LCA. This paper discusses LCA from the perspective of DOE and reviews several specific examples of the use of LCA by DOE.From experience in developing and testing pollution prevention tools ranging from the opportunity assessment methodology to life cycle assessment and impact assessment, the Systems Analysis Branch (SAB) of the EPA's National Risk Management Research Laboratory (NRMRL) has acquired a long record of lessons learned in applying these approaches for real world applications. Many of these lessons illustrate several limitations exhibited by each of these P2 approaches. For example, the pollution prevention opportunity assessment (PPOA), perhaps the most intuitive and simplest P2 tool available, is very good at identifying ways to improve operating practices, but the SAB has found several deficiencies in the PPOA's ability to support the procurement of new equipment, products and substitute materials. Life cycle assessment, by contrast, resolves most of those deficiencies by providing a far more comprehensive picture than PPOA, but it is very complex and more expensive by at least an order of magnitude than the PPOA. Further, while each methodological approach provides information on environmental burdens, neither provides any insights on the inevitable trade-offs that occur in performance and cost resulting from a decision. The failure to account for these trade-offs early in the assessment may result in a decision that inadvertently creates negative impacts in performance, cost and environments.
 The purpose of this article is to propose a new perspective to account for the trade-offs inherent from making a change.Projects related to Total Cost Assessment and Life Cycle Analysis have been underway for four years within the American institute of Chemical Engineer's (AIChE) Center for Waste Reduction Technologies (CWRT). The effort has culminated in a fully automated Total Cost Assessment tool called TCAce(TM).Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) can be used to improve the environmental performance of products throughout their life cycle. With ongoing discussions about system boundaries, appropriate data, and model limitations, LCA methods are in a constant state of evolution. This paper presents the use of a hybrid LCA approach to product environmental assessment in which two methods of analysis are combined to present the total environmental impact for two battery systems. A quantitative model for product assessment has been developed at Carnegie Mellon. The model is based on economic input-output life-cycle analysis (EIO-LCA) and has been explained in previous works. The EIO-LCA tool allows a user to quantify the direct and indirect relationships among industry sectors and the associated environmental burdens through the materials extraction and manufacturing phases. However, to study environmental effects over a product's entire life, use and end-of-life impacts must also be quantified. This is accomplished using the LCA approach in which an emissions and energy inventory is compiled and the environmental impacts are quantified. In this paper, the above hybrid LCA approach is applied to comparing the total environmental impacts of primary and rechargeable batteries. The primary (non-rechargeable) batteries mainly used in electronic products are zinc-alkaline batteries, and the most widely used consumer rechargeable batteries are nickel-cadmium. It is generally accepted that rechargeable batteries offer environmental advantages over primary batteries. We find that materials use, energy use, and emissions can be quantified over the entire product lifecycle to quantitatively show that resource use and emissions are substantially lower if a rechargeable battery can be substituted for a primary battery. However, consumer use patterns will affect the relative environmental benefits of rechargeable batteries. Noting the effect of consumer behavior also determines where uncertainties in the analysis may lie, since behavior is difficult to predict. Recycling batteries will also have associated emissions and energy use. Even accounting for the additional resource consumption and emissions for rechargeable batteries in the use and recycling phases of life, rechargeable batteries will still consume less resources over the entire life cycle when used in applications as a substitute for primary batteries. The assessment methods can also be applied to electronic products in addition to components such as batteries.The formation of the Working Group "Land use" by SETAC (Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry) and of the COST Action E9 Lv the European Community is the manifestation of the necessity to integrate the impact category "Land Use" in LCAs. The requisite Method should Permit the integration of different land use activities into the complex structures of process networks of LCAs and should be able to reflect the various land uses in 
a satisfactory manner. More than merely the quantification of area units is required, as the quality of the used land has to be integrated as well as the temporal variations in quality In this approach quality is described in terms of the performance of "natural" functions of the land before, during and after use. The quality of used land is subjected to variations in the course of time, i.e. the temporal relationships of functions should be represented. The modelled functions are erosion resistance, filtering and buffering, material transformation, rainwater drain-off, groundwater formation and groundwater protection, protection against immissions, stability and biotic output and should be adapted to the specifications of LCAs, i.e. description of different land uses within the life cycle of products, quantification via distinct and measurable parameters, characterisation of environmental effects and feasibility of data collation. Functions are quantified using measurable parameters e.g. granulation, cationic exchange capacity pH value, C/N value. Boundary conditions based on information on e.g. vegetation and land uses shall be integrated and maps and electronic databases used for background information. Wherever detailed information about investigated areas is available, it should be directly used in the model to improve the accuracy of the results. If only some derails about land uses are extant, assessments and estimates may be done based on key parameters and background information to obtain the most comprehensive possible idea of land use impacts. This would make it possible to assess the potential qualify of land which shall be related to output (functional unit) e.g. limestone as output of a quarry and timber as output of a forest. The dimension of land use is [(squaremeter . year quality difference)/ functional unit]. The objective of LCA is to identify potential environmental effects for the entire life cycle, making the evaluation of land use such as the supply of resources, manufacturing of products, use of products and recycling an important factor in impact assessment. Once a potential environmental problem within the process network has been identified, other tools may be used such as Risk Assessment or EIA or gee-ecological methods which are usually too time consuming and limited to local systems to be used in the analysis of global process networks.This paper describes the stepwise life cycle engineering methodology for the clean design of large made to order (LMTO) products under development at the Engineering Design Centre, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. LMTO products, such as offshore platforms, ships and power stations, have particular environmental implications due to their size, cost, long life spans, high public visibility and their potential for ecological/civil disaster. The methodology uses a stepwise approach to apply life cycle costing,life cycle assessment (environmental impact estimation) and risk assessment to an inventory model of the product. Both the inventory model and the analyses increase in complexity as the design progresses. The methodology extends the LMTO product life cycle model to include a long-term 'legacy' phase to address the intergenerational equity principle of sustainable development.The aim of the study is to develop a framework of applying life cycle assessment to production p
olicy. A case-study on corrugated paperboard manufacture is therefore implemented. The application framework comprises three components: the conventional life cycle assessment procedure, the analytical hierarchy process, and a multiobjective programming model. In the decision model for production policy adjustment the objectives of cost-effectiveness and environment-friendliness are incorporated The environmental impacts are classified as categories of pollution and disturbance as well as space groups of global, regional and local scales. This makes applicable the analytical hierarchy process for evaluating the environmental impacts. In the application the objectives incorporated are found to be competitive. The manufacture has to trade the increase of production costs for the reduction of environmental impacts. We also observe that the marginal effects of impacts on cost increase as the spatial scales of impact increase. (C) 2000 Academic Press.Previous life-cycle studies of buildings tended to omit the phases after demolition. If recycling is not included, the potential benefits of recycling are not possible to assess. A parametric study of a one family house is presented which focuses on the potential energy savings by recycling the various building materials after demolition. The results indicate that it can be more important to design a building for recycling than to use materials which require little energy for production, that the creation of effective recycling depends upon its consideration and inclusion at the design stage, that the re-use and adaptation of existing foundations is an important component of recycling.The current industrial productions of zinc and synthesis gas are characterized by their high energy consumption and their concomitant environmental pollution. Emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) could be reduced substantially by combining both productions and by replacing fossil fuels with concentrated solar energy as the source of high-temperature process heat. The extent of such a GHG mitigation has been quantified by conducting a Life Cycle Assessment on the solar- and fossil-fuel-based processes. Total GHG emissions for the conventional zinc production are 3.14 CO2-eq per kg primary zinc (99.995% purity), of which 64% are derived from the electricity consumption in the electrolytic step. Total GHG emissions for the conventional syngas production are 1.04 CO2-eq per kg syngas (molar ratio H-2/CO=2), of which 84% are derived from the combustion of fossil fuels in the endothermic steam-reforming step. Total emissions for the solar combined process are 1.51 CO2-eq per 1 kg zinc and 0.527 kg syngas, of which 78% are derived from the pre-/post-processing of reactants and products of the solar reactor, and 16% are derived from their transportation to/from the solar site. However, CO2-eq emissions derived from the solar processing step and its infrastructure are negligible. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology, the multidisciplinary study of coupled economic and environmental systems, provides the intellectual basis for understanding and implementing the vision of sustainable development in the firm. Using this approach, AT&T developed a matrix system which, when applied to the firm's products and operations, laid the groundwork for systemic improvements in the firm's environmental perfor
mance.I use an actor-network perspective to analyze a case study of an environmentally sustainable, commercial textile fabric design. Susan Lyons of DesignTex, Inc., William McDonough of William McDonough and Partners, and Albin Kalin of Rohner Textil AG constructed and maintained a network of people and objects with an environmental focus by anticipating contingencies that continually threatened their network, such as waste disposal, credibility, and financial problems. In response to these contingencies, they developed and implemented environmental tools, such as an environmental design protocol, a life-cycle development (LCD) methodology, environmental cost accounting procedures, product-evaluation metrics, and employee-management systems. The success of their efforts rests on their ability to recruit network allies by integrating these environmental tools.In this report, a CO2 recycling system is proposed and designed for the purpose of CO2 mitigation through utilization of natural energy (photovoltaic power generation). The materials for construction and unit requirements of this system are quantified and also an energy analysis is performed as one of life-cycle analysis (LCA) of this system. Concrete required for the foundation of the facilities is the largest material requirement and accounts for 62 per cent of the total amount of materials for building this system. The energy consumption needed to build the photovoltaic (PV) power generation facilities represents the largest fraction of energy consumption and accounts for 82 per cent of the energy consumption needed for building of plants. The energy balance ratio of the system is approximately 1.85. It clearly reveals that this system would be an effective way to utilize natural energy. Copyright (C) 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.The EC Directive on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC), now to be implemented in the UK under the Pollution Prevention and Control Act (1999), will widen the range of issues to be considered by enforcing authorities when determining the Best Available Techniques (BAT) for an installation. IPPC requires integrated control of emissions to air, water and land, the efficient use of energy and raw materials and the avoidance or reduction of impacts caused by disposal of wastes. This paper demonstrates that adopting a life cycle approach for the assessment of candidate techniques can fulfil these new requirements when choosing BAT. The glass manufacturing industry is used as a case study to show that the methodology can be used to assess both primary (in-process) and secondary (end-of-pipe) techniques for pollution prevention and control. General conclusions are drawn regarding the use of life cycle approaches to support the assessment of BAT, limitations in the current methodology and the requirements for future research.Plastics are indispensable materials for life cycle assessment (LCA), because they are as important basic raw materials as steel with its variety of applications including automobile and electric/electronic equipment. The LCA is also useful for evaluating the validity of recycling of plastics. In this paper, the amount of CO2 emission from the production of Polyvinyl chloride resins (PVC) was calculated by using the LCA methodology. The energy structure such as in-house electric power generation in the industries associated with
 the production of PVC was analyzed. The analysis of life cycle inventory (LCI) has been conducted under various scenarios based on the trading extent of the processes related to PVC production, and as a result, the followings have been observed. (1) The gross CO2 emission from the production of PVC varied in the range of 1.5-2.0 kg-CO2/kg-PVC, reflecting the difference in the unit value of CO2 emission attributable to in-house electric power generation in each of the industries related to PVC production. (2) The gross electricity consumption of PVC production was as high as 1.30 kWh/kg-PVC, and the CO2 emission attributable to the power generation was 63-72% of the total CO2 emission, while chlorine production consumed 0.73 kWh/kg-PVC. (3) It was necessary to evaluate the average amount of CO2 emission from the production of PVC in Japan based on the energy structure of the industries related to PVC production. Moreover, the amount of CO2 emission is greatly influenced by the allocation methodology for electrolysis of NaCl. Also, the effect of reduction on the CO2 emission of the projected gas diffusion electrode for energy saving was discussed by means of quantitative LCI analysis.In the aquatic environment, a number of techniques are available to evaluate environmental benefits arising from improvements in water quality. However, such techniques do not account for the environmental costs of implementing a given quality change, for example those associated with the construction and operation of necessary treatment processes. Life cycle assessment is a technique that enables the nature of environmental impacts arising from the construction and operation of processes to be established. Although comprehensive assessment of all options is likely to be uneconomic, focusing on a number of key system inputs and outputs offers the possibility to include such impacts cost effectively in investment appraisal. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.In recent years, the introduction of superconducting magnetic energy storage systems (SMES) into a power system is drawing considerable research effort because of their high efficiency rate and large storage capacity characteristics. In this paper, the introduction of SMES into a power system and its effects on energy and on environmental issues are addressed. The analysis results show that the introduction of SMES can considerably cut down CO2 emissions without increasing the production cost if it substitutes for the operation of thermal plants during peak load period. However, to achieve this, nuclear plants are also needed for charging purposes. Thus, an algorithm to find the best generation mix, subject to CO2 emissions constraints and nuclear plant introduction constraints, is proposed. The inclusion of nuclear plant constraints increases the coal consumption, hence CO2 emissions. Nevertheless, in most of the analyzed cases, the introduction of SMES could attain important cost savings and environmental conservation. (C) 2000 Scripta Technica.This paper describes the assessment of the human health damages related to the man-made routine releases of radioactive material to the environment as reported in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The fate and exposure analyses are based on site-specific modelling of the French nuclear fuel cycle, from which generic exposure factors are derived. The effe
ct analysis is based largely on epidemiological studies. The damage analysis relies on the concept of disability adjusted life years (DALY). Cultural theory is used in the damage assessment to create two value-compatible assessment scenarios. Two sets of damage factors for damage-oriented and two sets of equivalency factors for effect-oriented impact assessment methods are presented. An assessment of human health damages of different electricity supply systems shows that low-dose ionising radiation contributes to 13% and 80-99% of total human health damages of nuclear power production, applying an individualist and an egalitarian perspective, respectively. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is frequently used as a tool for environmental assessment of buildings and building products. Generally, the main focus of LCA is the impact on the regional and global external environment. However, there are important environmental problems related to buildings that arise locally in connection with the indoor environment, such as effects on human health. The approaches of LCA, measurements of emissions from building materials, and indoor climate assessment were studied to see how they relate to each other from a methodological point of view, using volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions as an example. The possibility of including indoor climate issues as an impact category in LCA of building products was investigated. Only very limited aspects of the indoor climate could be addressed in LCA; thus, indoor climate issues are preferably dealt with separately. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.Changes in the amount of recycled material delivered by, or used in, the life cycle of a product will affect the environmental burdens of other product life cycles. These indirect effects can potentially be taken into account through expansion of the system investigated to include the activities affected. Presently, the assessment of the indirect effects is often based on inaccurate assumptions. The indirect effects depend on, e.g. how the market for the recycled material reacts to a change in the supply of, or demand for, the recycled material. This, in turn, depends on political constraints, price elasticities, etc, in the markets for recycled material. This paper presents a model that takes the market aspects into consideration. It can be used in a life cycle assessment (LCA) to model the indirect effects either through system expansion or as a basis for allocation. It is designed for the use in change-oriented LCAs, but it can also be used in accounting type LCAs. The model is demonstrated in two theoretical cases: increased local collection for recycling of old corrugated containers and newsprint, respectively. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.During the process of developing a new product, consciously or unconsciously, a number of decisions are made that affect the environment, thus making a company responsible not only for the technical performance but also for the "environmental performance" of a product. This research paper broadly speaks about this development process and lists the various tools available to the modern decision maker for balancing the ecological, economical and technological aspects of production. The focus of this paper is on the environmental issues in the a
utomobile industry and environmental impacts presently associated with the automobile life cycle. The paper reviews existing tools and opportunities for reducing these burdens in the future through decision-making by industry and other stakeholders. The paper ends with a very latest example from the German automobile industry on the assumption that this automobile (SMART from MCC AG)I in the present context, is perhaps an outcome of a very vigorous development process where the impact of the product outside the automobile sector was considered. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessments of 18 grassland farms in three relevant subprograms of the Bavarian agri-environmental program - "intensive" (no real restriction), "extensified" (no mineral nitrogen fertilizer) and "organic" - were carried out to analyse ecological deficits and to suggest efficient measures for improvement. Support of intensive farms (approx. 43% of all farms) does not reduce negative environmental impacts. Renunciation of mineral nitrogen fertilizer in the "extensified" subprogram (approx. 46% of all farms) reduces negative effects in the energy use, climate change and ground water impact categories. Howe, er in the central impact categories for the region - quality of surfacewater (lakes), biodiversity of wild species and landscape image - no progress is achieved. In these categories organic farms (approx. 6% of all farms) have clear advantages, but financial support is only marginally higher. Based on the results of the life cycle assessment several proposals for support measures are suggested that would create a more effective agri-environmental program. The main problem of die region is the very high farming intensity, specifically expressed in live stock-units per area. In order to reduce the intensity with either several single approaches or with a system approach (organic farming), smaller regional live-stock-units or milk quotas should be considered. Therefore the program should be sensitive rind attractive to farmers.This paper reviews the functions of packaging materials and the social ann environmental impacts that packaging has, reflecting our changing lifestyle. The functions of some packaging materials, such as prevention of food contamination protection against spoilage, preservation of contents ann communications linking the food manufacturer to the customer, are many and varied in extent ann complexity. The current life cycle assessment (LCA) can not easily be applied to the assessment of environmental impacts of packaging materials, taking packaging functions into consideration, but attempts at such application are being made experimentally. Copyright (C) 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Emerging environmental pressures over the last two decades have urged the development of sophisticated tools to evaluate the environmental burdens and impact of products and processes. Life cycle assessment (LCA) was first used some 30 years ago and has now developed into a valuable tool for businesses to support their decision making in packaging development and application. This paper outlines the concept of LCA and how it can be applied to support strategic business development. The paper also describes the integration of the LCA concept in an existing Code of Practice, as well as future developments in furthering the integration with econo
mical and social decision parameters. Copyright (C) 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.As industry moves toward a world of extended producer responsibility (EPR) in which ownership of products becomes less common and product leasing and service provisioning become more pervasive, it is increasingly important to develop frameworks for assessing the environmental impacts of the service industry. In this paper, we use streamlined life cycle assessment to compare the environmental impacts of a residential air conditioning unit with a proposed "conditioned air" service. When the entire life cycle is considered, the assessments indicate that the service option is environmentally preferable. By making the producer ultimately responsible for product repair and "take-back," the service option creates incentives for the producer to design air conditioning units and their packaging for recovery, remanufacture, and recycling. This in turn minimizes the need for new raw materials and component parts. EPR also helps to ensure responsible unit maintenance and repair, which reduces chemical and oil dissipation into the environment. Public policy actions that provide incentives for EPR may therefore prove to be environmentally beneficial.The growing concern for environmental problems in the current economy has spurred the study of the way materials and substances flow through the economy, resulting in many different types of analysis. Since all of these have their merits and shortcomings, much of the present theoretical research seems to be focusing on combining the best aspects of each model type into an integrated model. The aim of this payer is to make a first step in bridging the gap between the various types of analysis of material flows in the economy, by discussing the main differences and similarities of three often employed model types: substance flow analysis, life cycle assessment and partial economic equilibrium analysis. Instead of submitting each model to a lengthy theoretical discussion, we apply them to a single, hypothetical example of a pollution problem. By doing so we are able to evaluate the differences and similarities of the methods:and results of the model in a practical way. It appears that the results of the three models are complementary rather than contradictory. Each of them puts an emphasis on different aspects of 'the real world'. A sequential application of a number of limited models may therefore be an approach that provides more useful information than the tedious construction and application of an encompassing model that integrates these models. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This study aims to investigate the ISO 14001 implementation process and its implications for regional environmental management. The region of Central Japan (known as Chubu in Japanese. which literally means center) was chosen for this case study. The study focuses on selected issues such as the: (1) trends and motives of private firms in the implementation of an ISO 14001-based environmental management system (EMS); (2) obstacles during system implementation; (3) role of the system in enhancing environmental performance within the certified organization; and (4) relation between the major stakeholders, local citizens, governments, and firms after adopting the system. To achieve these objectives, a questionnaire survey was mailed to all 
certified firms in the region. A 58% response was achieved overall. The results show that the main aims behind the adoption of ISO 14001 by firms in the Chubu region are to improve the environmental aspects within the enterprises and to enhance the employees' environmental awareness and capacity. The results have also shown that the ISO 14001-based EMS has had a great effect on a firm's environmental status as certified firms have claimed that natural resources such as fuel, water, and paper consumption have been more efficiently managed after adopting the system. implementation of the system causes the firms to consider the role of the local people and the government in more effectively involving the local people in the firm's daily environmental activities. It also helps to enhance the environmental awareness among the local people. Adopting the system also promotes a better relation within the enterprises affiliated to the same group, such as more attention given by the parent firms (head offices) towards other firms working for the same group, or branches-mainly small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs)-in the field of EMS. Finally, the results show that firms give serious consideration to their final products' impacts on the environment. In other words, attention is given to life cycle analysis (LCA) among certified firms.Polychlorinated naphthalenes (PCNs) are organic compounds with some chemical properties and uses similar to polychlorinated biphenyls. Polychlorinated naphthalenes have been detected in biota from certain aquatic environments. The toxicities of several PCN technical mixtures (Halowax) to medaka (Oryzias latipes) were determined by use of an embryo nanoinjection method. Medaka eggs (early gastrula) were injected with 0.5 nl of triolein (vehicle control) or 0.5 nl of four to five graded doses (0.3-30 ng/egg) of Halowax 1014, Halowax 1013, or Halowax 1051 in triolein. Following exposure, embryos developed, and fry were reared to sexual maturity (4 months), at which time they were euthanized. Responses were evaluated as early life stage (ELS) and early adult life stage (EALS) assessments. For ELS, lethality and sublethal alterations in embryos and larvae (<16 d old), such as craniofacial, cardiovascular, and myoskeletal deformities and abnormal or delayed hatch, were monitored for the first 9 d, and a dose severity index was computed. The EALS assessment examined the survival of 16-d-old larvae until early adulthood (123 +/- 3 d old), including gonadosomatic index (GSI) and morphometry. Halowax 1014 was found to be the most toxic mixture (LD50 4.2 ng/egg), whereas Halowax 1013 and 1051 were significantly less toxic (LD50s could not be determined). The gonadosomatic index of females was significantly less in fish dosed with Halowax 1014 or 1051. The LD50 for medaka embryos nanoinjected with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is about 0.75 pg/egg. Thus, Halowax 1014 was 5,585-fold less patent than TCDD. For Halowax 1014, ELS assessments accurately predicted the results of EALS assessments.This paper analyses the environmental impacts of a large-scale sewage-treatment plant and identifies opportunities for environmental performance improvements over the three life-cycle phases of construction, operation and demolition. Results show that nearly 70% of energy consumption occurred during the operation phase, which was
 lower than the normal energy consumption level of the conventional activated-sludge process. The results of the life-cycle assessment mag have implications in material selection, energy management, process design, supplier and contractor management, and environmental policy making.Nordberg, a capital equipment manufacturer, performed a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study on its rock crusher to aid in making decisions on product design and energy improvements. LCA is a relatively new cutting edge environmental tool recently standardized by ISO that provides quantitative environmental and energy data on products or processes. This paper commences with a brief introduction to LCA and presents the system boundaries, modeling and assumptions for the rock crusher study. System boundaries include all major life cycle stages except manufacturing and assembly of the crusher. Results of the LCA show that over 99% of most of the flows into and out of the system may be attributed to the use phase of the rock crusher. Within the use phase itself, over 95% of each environmental inflow and outflow (with some exceptions) are attributed to electricity consumption, and not the replacement of spares/wears or lubricating oil over the lifetime of the crusher. Results tables and charts present selected environmental flows, including CO2 NOx, SOx, particulate matter, and energy consumption, for each of the rock crusher life cycle stages and the use phase. This paper aims to demonstrate the benefits of adopting a rigorous scientific approach to assess energy and environmental impacts over the life cycle of capital equipment. Nordberg has used these results to enhance its engineering efforts toward developing an even more energy efficient machine to further progress its vision of providing economic solutions to its customers by reducing the crusher operating (mainly electricity) costs. (C) 2000 ACEEE Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The increasing awareness of the environment has contributed to concerns regarding our life styles and our indiscriminate disposal of wastes. During the last decade, we have been trying to address this complex problem, more aggressively. Discussed here briefly, are our efforts in the United States in addressing the issue of solid wastes and in particular, plastic wastes. These efforts have begun to show promising results. The municipal solid waste (MSW) produced annually, has begun to decrease, e.g. from 211.5 million tons in 1995 to 209.7 million tons in 1996. Recycling rates and composting rates are increasing. Disposal in landfills is decreasing (from 60.9 to 55.5% in 1996). Waste disposal by combustion is also increasing. This is primarily due to the increased efficiencies of the new incinerators and their ability for the removal of particulates and harmful gases. Plastics are a small but a significant component of the waste stream. It is encouraging to note that the amount of plastics being recycled has grown significantly. In 1997, about 317 million kg of high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles and 294 million kg of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles were recycled. Recycling of durable goods, such as automotive parts, carpets, electronic and appliance housings and parts are being explored. Environmental compatibility and recyclability are being considered during the designing of new parts. Life cycle a
nalyses and management are also being studied as tools for decision making. (C) 2000 ACEEE Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Degradation of the global environment and depletion of resources are threatening sustainable development of mankind. In particular, climate change caused by increasing greenhouse gases is one of the most serious issues in analyzing energy systems. This paper aims at proposing frameworks to investigate sustainability and at evaluating technologies for sustainable energy systems. For this purpose, we first define the index of sustainable limits on resource depletion and emissions. Sustainability of mineral and energy resources is evaluated based on the index. Estimations indicate that energy resources and CO2 are unsustainable, and that we should introduce technologies to reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Life cycle energy requirements are assessed for photovoltaic systems as representatives of the technologies. Through the life cycle assessment, we quantitatively evaluate measures to improve life cycle energy requirements and capital costs. At the same time, we clarify the direction of research and development required for technologies to realize sustainable energy systems. (C) 1999 Scripta Technica.This paper demonstrates how finite element simulations combined with embedded models, structured methodologies, data gathering, validation, plus integration and interpretation of results, are used to assess the in-service performance of a variety of elastomeric sealing systems. Typical examples will be covered, including : a seal and housing design optimisation a sensitivity study on the effect of an individual material property on explosive decompression. a quantitative seal performance life cycle assessment by simultaneous consideration of a number of competing factors, such as gas or liquid uptake, temperature and pressure effects etc.For utilities in deregulated states, the issue of customer choice takes on an added dimension. Customers concerned about the quality of their local environment -or more specifically, the perceived harm being done to their current electricity supplier- now have a new reason to consider another supplier. The aim of this paper is to propose the disclosure of suitable environmental performance indicators provided during energy market transactions with kWh cost of the generation. An indicator, which describes synthetically the environmental impact relative to energy production is proposed in this paper for industrial customers. It is shown how the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology can provide such an indicator. Open problems about the implementation of an electricity market where environmental attributes are disclosed are also addressed.This paper presents a new graduate level cost analysis course that has been taught in the Mechanical Engineering Department at the University of Maryland. The objective of this course is to provide students with an in-depth understanding of the process of predicting the cost of systems. Elements of traditional engineering economics are melded with manufacturing process modeling, life cycle cost management concepts, and selected concepts from environmental life cycle cost assessment to form a practical foundation for predicting the real cost of electronic products. Various manufacturing cost analysis methods are included in 
the course: process-flow, parametric, cost-of-ownership, and activity based costing. The effects of learning curves, data uncertainty, test and rework processes, and defects are considered in conjunction with these methodologies. In addition to manufacturing processes, the product life cycle costs associated with design, procurement, manufacturing waste, sustainment, and end-of-life are also addressed. This course uses real life design scenarios from integrated circuit fabrication, electronic systems assembly, substrate fabrication, and testing at various levels. As a next step in the development of these educational materials, we propose to expand the involvement of industry in the course and create a set of web-based modules for use in this course, and as supplements to other courses. In addition, we will expand the elements the course addressing environmental costs, particularly the concepts of environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA) and design for environment (DFE). Simplified methodologies and metrics that demonstrate the economic impact environmental issues will be incorporated.A life cycle assessment (LCA) is a holistic evaluation tool used to identify the environmental impacts of a product that result from its manufacture, use and disposal. An LCA takes into account both the raw materials consumed and the waste generated throughout the entire life of a product. Industries are discovering that LCAs can - if conducted properly - lower costs associated with environmental issues, reduce the use of certain materials, and enhance public image. Conducting an LCA can be an extremely time-consuming process, however, if the parameters of the overall system are not clearly defined. A clear definition of a system's limitations or boundaries is necessary to establish each life cycle stage and, in turn, to clearly communicate the intent of the analysis and the basis for the results. This paper will present the fundamentals of conducting an LCA - most importantly, what elements to include and exclude in the process. The techniques presented, commonly accepted by regulatory agencies and manufacturing firms alike, will demonstrate how to use the LCA tool to its fullest.Biomass for energy conversion is usually considered as a local resource. With appropriate logistic systems, access to biomass can be improved over a large geographical area. In this study, life cycle inventory (LCI) has been used as a method to investigate the environmental load of selected bioenergy transport chains. As a case study, chains starting in Sweden and ending in Holland have been investigated. Biomass originates from tree sections or forest residues, the latter upgraded to bales or pellets. The study is concentrated on production of electricity, hot cooling water is considered as a loss. Electricity is, in the case study, produced from solid biomass in the importing country. Electricity can also be produced in the country of origin and exported via the transnational grid as transportation medium. The results show that emissions from long range transportation, 1200 km, performed with ships, is of minor importance compared to emissions from local bioenergy systems in a local market. In bioenergy systems the use of fuels and electricity for operating machines and transportation carriers requires a net energy input which amounts to typically 7-9% of delivered electrical en
ergy from the system. Emissions of key substances such as NOx, CO, S, hydrocarbons, and particles are low in a perspective of sustainability. Emissions of CO2 from bio-combustion are considered to be zero since there is approximately no net contribution of carbon to the biosphere in an energy system based on biomass. The results indicate that biomass for energy can be transported from Scandinavia to Holland without losing its environmental benefits. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Biomass utilisation for energy production presently faces an uphill battle against fossil fuels. The use of biomass must offer additional benefits to compensate for higher pl ices: on the basis of a life cycle assessment (using BEAM to evaluate a variety of integrated bioenergy systems in connection with the Sustainable Process Index as a highly aggregated environmental pressure index) it is shown that integrated bioenergy systems are superior to fossil fuel systems in terms of environmental compatibility. The implementation of sustainability measures provides additional valuable information that might help in constructing and optimising integrated bioenergy systems. For a set of reference processes, among them fast pyrolysis, atmospheric gasification, integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC), combustion and steam cycle (CS) and conventional hydrolysis, a detailed impact assessment is shown. Sensitivity analyses of the most important ecological parameters are calculated, giving an overview of the impacts of various stages in the total life cycle and showing 'what really matters'. Much of the ecological impact of integrated bioenergy systems is induced by feedstock production. It is mainly the use of fossil fuels in cultivation, harvesting and transportation as well as the use of fertilisers in short-rotation coppice production that impose considerable ecological pressure. Concerning electricity generation the most problematic pressures are due to gaseous emissions, most notably the release of NOx. Moreover, a rather complicated process thigh amount of grey energy) and the use of fossil pilot fuel (co-combustion) leads to a rather weak ecological performance in contrast to other 100% biomass-based systems. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The thermal energy supply of private residences was investigated with regards to the Carbondioxide emissions by the Institute of Technical an Environmental Chemistry of Jena University. Reasons for this study were basic reorganisations in the city's thermal energy supply since 1990. The Carbondioxide emissions have been investigated by means of Life Cycle Assessment to evaluate the heat supply of Jena residences under ecological aspects.Energy use is a widely used measure of the environmental impact of buildings. Recent studies have highlighted the importance of both the operational and embodied energy attributable to buildings over their lifetime. The method of assessing lifetime building energy is known as life-cycle energy analysis. With Kyoto target obligations necessitating the quantification of greenhouse gas emissions at the national level, it seems increasingly probable that analyses of this kind will increase in use. If conducted in primary energy terms, such analyses directly reflect greenhouse gas emissions, except for a few processes which involve significant non-energy relat
ed emissions such as cement manufacture. A Life-Cycle Assessment would include these issues, as well as other environmental parameters, though probably with a corresponding decrease in system boundary completeness. This paper briefly explains some of the theoretical issues associated with life-cycle energy analysis and then uses an Australian based case study to demonstrate its use in evaluating alternative design strategies for an energy efficient residential building. For example, it was found that the addition of higher levels of insulation in Australia paid back its initial embodied energy in life-cycle energy terms in around 12 years. However, the saving represented less than 6% of the total embodied energy and operational energy of the building over a 100-year life cycle. This indicates that there may be other strategies worth pursuing before additional insulation. Energy efficiency and other environmental strategies should be prioritized on a life-cycle basis.As a result of legislation and increasing public awareness, environmental considerations are given more and more importance in chemical process design. Furthermore, the focus in environmental protection has shifted from end-of-pipe technologies to improvements of the chemical processes. The realization of such improvements, on one hand, requires chemical or technical innovations (new molecules, new synthesis routes, new process designs) and, on the other hand, assessment methods are needed that deliver an objective comparison of process alternatives on appropriately defined system boundaries. Four different indicators for assessing the environmental impact of chemical processes are discussed: Mass Loss Indices (MLI), Environmental Indices (EI), a comprehensive EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) assessment method, and Eco-lndicator 95, an evaluation method used in the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) framework. These methods are summarized, compared, and applied to case studies from the chemical industry. Finally, the corresponding results are discussed and conclusions on the capability and limitations of the different indicators are drawn, in particular with regard to their applicability during the early phases of process development.Thinking in terms of product life cycles is one of the challenges facing manufacturers today: efforts to increase efficiency throughout the life cycle do not only lead to an extended responsibility of the concerned parties. As a result, economically successful business areas can be explored. Whether new service concepts are required, new regulations have been passed or consumers values are changing, the differences between business areas are disappearing. "Life Cycle Management" (LCM) considers the product life cycle as a whole and optimizes the interaction of product design, manufacturing and life cycle activities. The goal of this approach is to protect resources and maximize the effectiveness during usage by means of Life Cycle Assessment, Product Data Management, Technical Support and last but not least by Life Cycle Costing. This paper shows the existing approaches of LCM and discusses their visions and further development.Recycling of concrete is current practice. However, crushing of concrete is not environment friendly and concrete made of crushed concrete needs at least as much cement as other concrete. Therefore, it would be preferable to de
sign concrete structures demountable such that they can be easily demounted or adjusted to new needs and maybe reused. The paper deals with requirements on demountable structures and the current situation in Central Europe.Today industrial products should not only meet the requirements of functionality and profitability but should also have an environmentally friendly design. This demand needs an objective and internationally accepted method to rate products and services from an environmental viewpoint - the life cycle assessment. The R&D department of Siemens developed a branchspecific method based on the ISO 14040 series for life cycle assessment of products of the electro-industry. In every chapter of the methodological modelframe, branchspecific aspects were discussed and possible pathways of solution were presented. With, for example, a cordless telephone, it could be proven that the developed method can be transferred to products of higher complexity and to real consumer-end-products. The life cycle assessment implemented as environmental management proves useful for information, controlling, planning and decision making With life cycle assessment it is possible to identify areas for improvement. This serves to locate processes with hazardous emissions identify environmentally benign manufacturing technologies economize material and energy save costs The aim of the presented project was the development of a universally comprehensive model for a life cycle assessment for the products of the electro industry with the claim to a sustainable development as a business intention.The complex and immense demands of information and data for conducting LCAs are able to be managed by preparing a pre-calculated environmental orientated database. Once a data set of technical processes, energy systems or material productions is known it is only a matter of storage, handling and quality assurance for using these data in further studies or for similar products. The principal idea to implement Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) into Design for Environment (DIE) is the shift from modeling the process chains of the different life cycle phases -LCA- to an object or module based provision of the environmental information -DfE. In other words the environmental experts' language of input/output schemes has to be transferred into more technological, component or (sub-)assembly based designers' language. Therefore, the environmental input/output based processes must be offered in a pre-calculated manner. To ensure more flexibility parameters are implemented to vary the modules. This offers the feasibility to adapt pre-calculated modules to specific situations. The methodological approach how to come from LCA to DfE is underlined by the description of some depicted examples from the field of electronic products.From 1991 to 1996 the EDIP-methodology (Environmental Design of Industrial Products) was developed. One experience from the EDIP-project is that environmental assessment of products must give simple and operational conclusions, which can be acknowledged in the product development and by other decision makers throughout the product life cycle. The EDIP-project has demonstrated that it is possible to identify "the ten most important environmental hot spots". The documentation achieved by the environmental assessment shows where the most serious environmental i
mpacts in the product life cycle occur, and uncover where the improvement potentials are in the product. The environmental knowledge obtained in this context will be valid for a number of years, and both the producer and other interested parties can use this information for setting priorities in their future planning. However, it can be very time consuming to perform an environmental Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), and it would be an advantage if a number of similar products - product families - could be handled in one and the same LCA as a whole. The project has presently developed a method for selecting and forming product families, based on environmental and economical importance as well as the existence of several producers. Using this method, five families have been selected, namely mobile phones, vacuum cleaners, industrial valves with electronic controls, lighting and ventilation. Collaboration with 5 industrial companies has subsequently been established and environmental assessments (LCA) including diagnosis (the pointing out of hot spots) have been performed.Improving the environmental performance of telecommunications products can be achieved through the application of ecodesign and life cycle assessment tools during the design phase of products. Decision-making and selection trade-offs in component and material selection processes can present difficulties for both mechanical and hardware designers because of the short design cycles and "time to market" pressures. Ideally components would be "eco-evaluated" (including life cycle costs/revenues) as a standard part of the component qualification process. This leaves the designer to freely select components and materials according to functionality knowing that environmental performance had been taken into account. Component selection decisions in terms of circuitry power management would, of course, be made by the designer. The main purpose of the evaluation is to provide an input to evaluating the eco-performance of Nortel Networks products and predicting end-of-life financial scenarios. The development of a component eco-evaluation and predictive end-of-life cost/value procedure is introduced in this paper. The feasibility of integrating such a procedure into current processes for component selection at Nortel Networks is discussed. In addition the possibilities for implementation of a similar process by contract manufacturers is presented as the supply chain management strategy of Nortel Networks changes. Improving product eco-performance, minimising costs over the life cycle, and extending material life through effective materials management are some of the aims of a research programme at Nortel Networks. The work presented in this paper is a step towards realising those aims and making a contribution to sustainability.This presentation introduces a methodology to evaluate products and services on a full life cycle basis, based on the VDI-guideline 4600,Cumulative Energy Demand". After the definition of key indicators the method is applied to a complex electronic product composed of a PC with monitor, keyboard, mouse, disk drives, printer and modem. The production processes of the different components are analysed on the basis of the mass flow of the applied materials and a database with an integrated software tool developed at the Technical University Munich. The use of personal
 computers was analysed during a measurement campaign in cooperation with the EU Joint Research Center in Ispra, Italy. As a result different user profiles were determined and applied to the whole life time of a PC working place to get the Cumulative Energy Demand for Use. The deduction of all energy demands for dismantling, separation, disposition and preparation of secondary raw materials results in a bonus for the Cumulative Energy Demand for disposal of the PC and its peripheries. Finally the Cumulative Energy Demand during the whole life cycle depending on different parameters is calculated. With the presented results it is possible for the first time to evaluate a complex electronic product like a PC and its peripheral equipment on full life cycle basis. The study supplies detailed information on potentials of energy savings for all PC-system components.A recent life cycle assessment (LCA) clearly demonstrates a huge potential for reduction of environmental load by the use of voice mail services in stead of telephone answering machines. The LCA was performed as one among several others in an effort to cover the entire environmental load for Scandinavia's largest telecommunications operator Telia. The effort has lead to that Telia today has an extensive knowledge of where the hotspots are as well as where the largest potential is for load reduction as seen from a life-cycle perspective. This has also lead to a coherent view on product development, necessary demands on suppliers and customer value.In 1997, Inco Limited initiated a project to conduct eco-profiles of its worldwide metal production utilizing a life cycle assessment methodology. The information is intended to support (1) customer, government, and public informational needs, (2) internal process improvement, (3) marketing, and (4) environmental management and reporting. This paper discusses life cycle inventory/assessment (LCI/LCA) methodologies, the drivers behind the Inco Limited decision to undertake such a study, the methodology used, and the learnings from the project.This paper outlines the development of a life cycle analysis (LCA) model of the Canadian natural gas industry using Battelle's Life-Cycle Advantage(TM) platform. This model, developed on behalf of the Canadian Gas Association (CGA) and the Gas Research Institute Canada (GRI-Canada), provides detailed information on the cradle to grave emissions Of CO2, CH4 and NO2 gases through each segment of the Canadian natural gas industry, including upstream, transmission, storage, distribution and end-use. Development of the model involved an initial design of the model structure, data gathering on emission factors, equipment counts and individual company gas throughputs, model construction, calibration and results verification. The model is useful for the Canadian natural gas industry as it provides detailed equipment-level information on emission profiles for each area of operation. It also allows for a full fuel cycle comparison of natural gas with other fossil fuels on an equivalent end-use energy basis. These results are particularly useful within the context of Canada's National Climate Change Process and when examining the role of natural gas in reducing Canada's greenhouse gas emissions as per Kyoto Protocol commitments.Railways have a variety of environmental issues, such as noise, vibration, chemicals, he
avy metals, NOx, SOx, CO2, waste and so on. In order to solve these problems, there are five categories of engineering subjects, namely analysis of pollutants, assessment of environment, cleanup of pollutants, and preservation, harmonization, and improvement of environment. Several technical themes are also connected with these subjects, such as life cycle assessment (LCA), recycling, environment conscious materials (ECO-Materials), energy saving, environmental management system, including ISO14001 / JIS Q 14001 and so on. This paper discusses not only the engineering and technical aspects but also the economy, culture/tradition, public communications and mission of railways. From these investigations, sound environments can be obtained and finally "Sustainable Development" of our railways is achieved.This paper demonstrates the use of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as a basis for assessing potential environmental performance in the minerals industry through a copper case study. The case study is sourced from a demonstration plant of a hydrometallurgical process that converts copper sulfides and oxides to LME Grade A copper using a leach / electrowinning technology. The life cycle approach is supported by a sequential leach extraction protocol to better quantify the potential mobility of metals and complementary anions from solid waste residues. Sequential leach tests showed that the majority of iron and sulfur, the main components of these residues, are unlikely to mobilize under waste deposit conditions. This information was used to modify the potential burdens predicted using conventional LCA practice, giving a more realistic view of the overall potential impact associated with this process. Certain environmental effect scores were sensitive to changing process conditions; the eco-toxicity indicator was affected by changing process feed composition, whilst the global climate change indicator (greenhouse effect) was affected by changes to the current density for electrowinning.Life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology was used to compare the environmental loads from wastewater systems with different technical solutions. This study compared proposed conventional wastewater systems, both large and small scale, with separation systems: one in which urine is handled separately and one in which black water is treated in a liquid composting process. The study showed that large economies of scale, in environmental terms, could be gained both for the operation and for the construction phase. The separation systems outperformed the conventional systems by showing lower emissions to water and more efficient recycling of nutrients to agriculture, especially of nitrogen but also of phosphorus. This implies that the use of separation systems could significantly reduce the need for, and hence the production of, mineral fertilizers and thus reduce the overall use of energy and phosphate minerals. The combination of large-scale wastewater treatment and urine separation was found to be especially advantageous in these respects. It is concluded that some of the most important environmental advantages of separation systems emerge only when models of wastewater systems are expanded to also include potential effects on the production of fertilizers.Life Cycle Assessment has been used to compare the environmental performance of landfilling versus recycling of the
 zinc used for galvanizing steel. Hypothetical process routes were composed involving four different EAF dust treatment processes; Waelz kiln, DC-furnace, EZINEX and slag fuming, as well as scrap dezincing. The study shows that recycling of zinc used for galvanizing steel has environmental benefits in that it saves zinc resources. However, zinc recovery does not necessarily decrease the potential impact on global warming and acidification. The magnitude of these two impact categories is tightly correlated with the amount and type of primary energy consumed in a process. Due to the high electricity consumption in the dezincing process, this route has the highest impact on Global Warming Potential as well as Acidification Potential. The major part of the energy requirement for the production of zinc from primary and secondary sources is consumed in the reduction of ZnO to Zn. The consequence is that the theoretically possible savings in primary energy by recycling zinc-containing materials are relatively minor. The impact categories "land use" and "waste generation" are not considered in this study, but most likely the evaluation of such impacts would further increase the potential environmental impact of the landfill alternative. The results also show that the location of an electricity-intensive process highly affects the potential environmental impact. Comparing process and material alternatives in LCA studies where branch average data is used, is considerably more complex than when LCA is used within a company.The concept of "sustainable growth" is described from the viewpoint of the DuPont Company. Heuristics for estimating waste treatment costs and for solvent selection are reviewed, and open questions are identified. Sustainable products should be examined by Life Cycle Analysis, and the results of such an analysis for Nylon 66 in an automobile application are presented. Future information and modeling needs for developing greener processes are identified and discussed.The impacts of a crop production on the environment, local or global, present a wide range of diversity. This characteristic requires a global evaluation tool in ol der to optimise the whale chain or to avoid pollution transfer between medium lair, sail, water table...), or between economic actors (agriculture, industry...). Life cycle analysis (LCA) is one on these tools. The application of LCA to agriculture requires a reliable and representative quantification of the direct emissions on the field to water table (nitrates...), or to the atmosphere (CO(2), nitrous oxide, ammonia...). For a given crop production system, a given location, these direct emissions depend largely from the fluctuating conditions of the climate and particularly rainfall. A reliable and representative quantification of the direct emissions can be obtained through a modelling approach. Research activities aim to set up a model of direct emissions on the field; limited in a first step to nitrogen compounds. A CERES type model has been used, the different submodules have been calibrated from a long term experiment (a rape seed crop and its intercrop) on an experimental sire in Champagne-Ardennes (NE France).This introductory presentation will highlight recent efforts to quantify the positive value of recycling metals such as aluminum, magnesium, lead, zinc, nickel and copper in relation to the th
ree pillars of "sustainable development" - environmental protection, economic development and improve social consequences. This presentation will provide an overview of life cycle assessment profiles increasingly being utilized by customers, regulators and environmental advocacy groups to holistically evaluate the environmental performance of materials and products. The environmental profiles of products containing recycled metal will be presented based on rules established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Significant to the life cycle profile of metal products is recent confirmation that recycling has the potential to reduce materials production energy consumption by 95% for aluminum, 80% for magnesium and lead, 75% for zinc, and 70% for copper. Furthermore, "metals are eminently and repeatedly recyclable, while maintaining all their properties (1). Their durability relative to many hydrocarbon based materials enhance their life cycle performance. However, the persistence of metals when dispersed into our natural environmental makes recovery and recycling particularly important Overall, when considering life cycle effects, recycling is critical to a sustainable future for metal products. Finally, regional and international regulations will be highlighted which will effect the efficient recovery and recycle of metals and their overall contribution to environmental protection, economic development and the enhancement of society.This paper presents a methodology that uses a risk-based approach and life-cycle principles to incorporate environmental considerations into process design and development. Using a risk assessment model, a framework has been developed to assess the risk of harm that the process poses to the environment and conversely, the sensitivity of the process to environmentally related issues. A set of criteria has been introduced within the framework to select design tools and techniques applicable to the different stages of process design and development. By considering the lifecycle of the process and the relevant stakeholders, a holistic treatment is given to the risk assessment - which differs this methodology from traditional risk assessment approaches. Integrating such a risk approach to the design and development activity enables risk assessment to be used proactively in contrast to its typical audit function. The methodology is illustrated with a simplified example of a PVC process case study.The energy intensive nature of electric a re furnace (EAF) steelmaking necessitates that efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will affect steelmakers directly and/or through electric power producers. A model of GHG emissions from an EAF meltshop has been developed using the life cycle assessment approach. Direct and indirect sources of GHG gas emissions are estimated and ranked, Furnace combustion optimisation was evaluated in case studies conducted on a Canadian conventional EAF and a British scrap preheating 'shaft' furnace. The analysis assumed 32 and 68% fossil fuel electricity generation, respectively. These case studies show that indirect GHG emission sources, in particular electricity generation, are more significant than direct emissions from the EAF. For the conventional EAF, off gas analysis and improved combustion control reduced electricity consumption by 40 kWh t(-1), costs by 
US$1.05/t, and GHG emissions by 20 kg CO2-eq./t, For the shaft EAF, real time offgas monitoring and closed loop burner control reduced electricity consumption by 25 kWh t(-1), costs by US$3.6/t, and GHG emissions by 15 kg CO2-eq./t. The case studies show that combustion optimisation using an EAF off gas analysis and combustion control system provides greater electricity, cost, and GHG reductions than previously reported in the literature, I&S/1492.Life Cycle Assessment has been used to compare the environmental performance of landfilling of the zinc used for galvanising steel with recycling by a number processes. Hypothetical process routes were composed involving three different EAF dust treatment processes, Waelz kiln, DC-furnace, and EZINEX, as well as scrap dezincing. The study shows that recycling of zinc used for galvanising steel clearly has environmental benefits in that it saves zinc resources. However, zinc recovery does not necessarily decrease the potential impact on global warming and acidification. The magnitude of these two impact categories is tightly correlated with the amount and type of primary energy consumed in a process. Due to the high electricity consumption in the dezincing process, this route has the highest impact on Global Warming Potential as well as Acidification Potential. The major part of the energy requirement for the production of zinc from primary and secondary sources is consumed in the reduction of ZnO to Zn. The consequence is that the theoretically possible saving in primary energy by recycling zinc-containing materials is relatively small. The impact categories land use and waste generation are not considered in this study, but most likely the evaluation of such impacts would further increase the potential environmental impact of the landfill alternative. The results also show that the location of an electricity-intensive process highly affects the potential environmental impact. Comparing process and material alternatives in LCA studies where branch average data is used is therefore considerably more complex than when ICA is used within a company.China has become the largest producer of SO2 emissions in the world. Thus effective SO2 emission and acid rain controls are urgently needed. This paper designated the priority control zones for both SO2 emission and acid precipitation in China. The Control Zones were identified as an area of 1.09x10(6) km(2), about 11.4% of the China's territory and about 14 Million tons SO2 emissions. The Acid Rain Control Zones involved 14 provinces, autonomous regions or municipalities, with 806000 km(2), about 8.4% of the national territory. The SO2 Pollution Control Zones had 290000 km(2), about 3% of the national territory. The policies against SO2 emissions were also formulated based on the coal life-cycle assessment. In the short term, it was suggested that affordable countermeasures should be taken to reduce SO2 emissions from sources, mainly including shutdown or retrofit of high-sulfur-coal mines, coal processing, and utilization of desulfurizing technologies in power plants. In the long term, clean coal technologies should be developed to avoid SO2 emissions from sources. The Chinese Government has accepted the designation results and the corresponding control policies.Solid Oxide Fuel Cells (SOFCs) offer many advantages over conventional methods of electrical
 generation including higher efficiencies and lower emissions. The environmental benefits of the use phase of SOFCs have been extensively reported but it is important that the total environmental burden is evaluated. This is done by adopting a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. An essential element of the LCA of SOFCs is the fabrication stage. This paper describes the environmental impact of six SOFC fabrication methods;: screen-printing, slurry spraying, tape casting, calendering, electrochemical vapor deposition and physical vapor deposition.A study of refined metallic copper and nickel production was carried out using Life Cycle Assessment methodology to estimate the life cycle emissions of greenhouse and acid rain gases for these metals using data derived from the literature. Various processing routes were investigated which included a pyrometallurgical and a hydrometallurgical route for each metal. The effect of a number of process variables, namely ore grade, fuel type for electricity generation and efficiency of generation were also examined in the study. The results of the study, expressed in terms of total (or full cycle) energy consumption, Global Warming Potential (GWP) and Acidification Potential (AP), showed that the hydrometallurgical processes involving solvent extraction and electrowinning had higher energy consumptions and GWPs than the pyrometallurgical processes for both metals. Nickel metal production was shown to be several-fold mote energy intensive than copper metal production. The significant effect that falling ore grades have on attempts to meet greenhouse emission targets was also highlighted in the study.Agricultural processes are considerable sources of nitrous oxide and methane. An assessment of the contribution of particular processes should include the industrial inputs to agriculture. Life cycle analysis based on process chains is an appropriate assessment method. There are promising options to reduce emissions of nitrous oxide and methane. Successful strategies are based on an improvement of the output-input-ratio of production systems, e.g. by the introduction of precision farming. Additional options can be seen in a shift from high input cultures to low input cultures, if possible. Whether genetic engineering or other advancements are able to contribute to a decrease of the emission potential is not yet clear.Whereas there are known technical and economical advantages of using SF6-technology in electricity supply systems, the potential environmental effects of applying this technology has not been quantified in detail up to now. From this background, a comparative Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) on the supply of electricity using different switchgear technology has been carried out, which showed the following main results : Already on the level of switchgear bays the use of SF6-technology results in reductions of the area needed and energy losses and thereby also in a decrease of emissions contributing to acid rain and nutrification of rivers and seas. The total global warming potential can be decreased subject to low SF6 losses and in bays with a high loading. For an electricity supply grid of a city with 140,000 inhabitants the use of SF6-technology showed to be favourable in all environmental aspects studied (area used, energy needed, acid rain, nutrification and global warming potential) as compared to
 conventional SF6-free-technoIogy. SF6-technology provides particular flexibility in the basic design and in case of extension or re-arrangements of electricity supply grids. Thus, the length of the medium-voltage-cables can be reduced resulting in lower transmission losses. This fact is the main reason for the environmental advantages of SF6-technology, provided the SF6 losses are adequately controlled The study has been performed and critically reviewed according to ISO 14040.Current engineering design methods do not take the concept of 'sustainability' into consideration. In light of increasingly clear signs of unsustainability on a world scale, such as global warming, it is, however, necessary that process and product development include the concept of sustainability. This paper describes a new general method that operationalises the concept of sustainability into engineering design methods for selecting a sustainable process or product. The method modifies and extends principles of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to evaluate the long-term effects of the production, use, and disposal of possible alternatives. In addition to global warming, the comparison of the different alternatives is based on themes including ozone depletion, nutrification, acidification, and photo-chemical smog formation. New themes developed include safety and household toxicity. The method also explicitly considers the important social concept of 'equity', the 'ultimate environmental fate' of substances, and the precautionary principle as criteria to assess sustainability. The developed method is applied to six possible alternatives to CFC-refrigerants for household refrigerators: iso-butane, formaldehyde, dimethylether, HFC, chloromethane, and ammonia. The new method shows that iso-butane is the best refrigerant, but only sustainable if the electricity production itself is sustainable.The paper describes the implementation of a computer-aided procedure capable of performing the Extended Exergy Analysis of an arbitrary model of a Complex Energy System. By this denomination we indicate a structured representation of any organised anthropic activity interacting with the Environment: individual Energy Conversion Systems, Industrial Settlements, Societal Sectors and an entire Society are examples of "Systems" that can be analysed by the procedure. The level of aggregation, the relevant input data and boundary conditions must be assigned by the user, and are scrutinised by the code for internal consistence. Except for this preliminary check, the procedure is entirely acritical about the input data, thus allowing a very broad range of sensitivity studies. The total amount of the resources entering the control volume must be assigned, either directly in exergetic form, or otherwise by means of mass- and specific energy flow rate values: the code executes a simple screening on the input data and computes the exergetic value of the incoming flows with the help of a table of "raw exergy data" available in one of its libraries. Energy- and exergy balances are performed independently: the package generates mass-, energy-, exergy- and extended exergy "balances". Irreversible losses are computed separately for each component of the System. The Extended Exergy Accounting ("EEA") technique allows for the computation of the real "value" of a product or artefact or service, and enabl
es the analyst to assess a particular instance of Complex System (i.e., a certain structure and a certain input/output composition) in a more complete and meaningful way than both Life Cycle Analysis and Exergy-Life Cycle Analysis and Engineering Economic techniques (including Then-no-economics). The advantage of EEA consists in the inclusion in the System balance of the exergetic equivalent of human work (Labour), of Capital and of environmental damage. An example of application of the procedure to the Italian Society (on a 1996 database) is presented and discussed.An Exergetic Life Cycle Assessment and a classical environmental Life Cycle Assessment have been carried out for a power cycle featuring low emissions of carbon dioxide. The configuration of the power cycle is a semi-closed gas turbine combined cycle which allows tile increasing Of CO2 concentration in flue gases. The sequestration of carbon dioxide is achieved by means of chemical absorption with blended solution of amines. The Life Cycle Assessment is mainly focussed on Greenhouse Effect during the three phases of construction, operation and dismantling of the complete plant. This is necessary to verify if the process is effective in terms Of CO2 reduction. Others environmental effects have been considered, too. Besides the classic Life Cycle Assessment, an Exergetic Life Cycle Assessment has also been performed - in which exergy is considered as an indicator of resources depletion; the aim of this analysis is to assess the environmental cost, in term of exergy losses, of the life cycle of the plant. An accurate exergy analysis of the removal plant has been carried out.This study provides a LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) scheme for a co-generation system aiming at compromising compatibility between environmentally and economically eco-operation with a NETS (Numerically Environmental Total Standard) concept. An optimum scheme for a co-generation system for an energy demand is environmentally and economically evaluated with an introduction of ESS (Eco-load standardization scheme) by noting fossil fuel depletion as input resources, and global warming due to CO2 emission and rain acidification due to NOx and SOx emissions as output. In this paper, an optimum operation scheme for a co-generation system is investigated from a point of view with use of various fuels for elemental machines because the exhaust gas composition and running cost differs according to a variety of fuels. The merits and demerits of the introduction of a co-generation system is numerically shown from an ecological and economical standpoint.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) has been developed in the last decades. A comprehensive framework has been established to enable the execution of the analysis. In this framework the concept of exergy or similar thermodynamic concepts have not yet been introduced. It is shown in this paper that for sustainable development the depletion of exergy reservoirs and the exergetic emission to the environment have to be minimised. To accomplish this it is proposed to extend the LCA with an Exergetic Life-cycle Analysis (ELCA). The method of how to perform an ELCA is presented. In the paper the concept of a zero-exergy or a reduced exergy emission plant is introduced. It is shown that in the case of a zero-exergy emission plant the LCA can completely be replaced by an ELCA. An extension t
o the method of ELCA is presented in which emissions are translated in terms of exergy. As a case study the comparison between the disposable polystyrene cup and the porcelain mug has been made. It is shown that the extended ELCA is a valuable approach because it gives a good indication of the effort in terms of natural resources needed to prevent emissions.The main objective is to minimize the influence of subjective arguments in the determination of an indicator for sustainability. Current methods are often based on the results of an environmental oriented Life Cycle Assessment. These results show the impact on the environment in many different effects, which are often aggregated into an indicator. The method of aggregation is often subject of discussion. By using the laws of thermodynamics it is possible to calculate the amount of the apparent non-renewable exergy necessary for the life cycle of a certain product or process. The new concept is mainly based on dividing the exergetic cost of a flow into a renewable exergetic cost flow and a non-renewable exergetic cost flow. The result of this method is the so-called rate of sustainability and is an indicator of the potential environmental impact of a particular process. An example is given whereby it is made clear that the production of electricity by a (Municipal) Waste Incinerating Plant (WIP) is less sustainable than by a Natural Gas fired power Plant (NGP).This paper outlines a Design Combined Methodology (DCM) that allows to conjugate some advantages from Pinch Technology and Thermoeconomics. Life Cycle Analysis is emphasized during Environmental Evaluation step and used in Thermoeconomics. Nowadays, the industrial processes used for fertilizers production in Colombia show a poor performance in both environmental and economic aspects. A nitric acid plant, which exports steam and produces mechanical energy, is considered as study case. Methodology application shows that there are many sources of exergy loss and irreversibilities in the process, caused by large temperature differences in heat transfer and several cases of bad allocations of heat exchangers. Because of this, two proposals of revamping are formulated: process with steam exportation only and process focused in production of mechanical energy. Proposed designs are discussed in some detail and DCM is applied to each one. Total investment for study case and proposed processes and their production cost are compared: new processes reach savings of 9 and 10%, respectively.This paper summarises the methodology and results generated as part of an integrated Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Cost Analysis of key elements of the draft proposal for an EC Directive on waste from electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) commissioned by the UK Department of Trade and Industry. Eight products were analysed: refrigerator, washing machine, personal computer, vacuum cleaner, television lawn mower, kettle and telephone. Three scenarios were investigated: the current situation in the UK; 100% landfilling of WEEE; and the draft proposed EU Directive requirements. The results of the study showed that for all products the Current UK scenario had less of an environmental impact than the 100% Landfilling Scenario. Also for six of the eight products, i.e. washing machine, PC, telephone, kettle, vacuum cleaner and lawnmower, the proposed WEEE Dir
ective scenario was environmentally superior to the Current UK scenario; for the remaining two products - the refrigerator and TV - the result was less clear cut, with some environmental impacts being higher in the proposed WEEE Directive scenario. In terms of the life cycle financial analysis, it was generally concluded that the Current UK Scenario was the most cost effective. Although the proposed WEEE Directive scenario also offered positive net values for many of the products at the assumed prices, it was considered that the existing markets are insufficient to enable the provisions in the Proposal to be met cost-effectively.Market pressures and regulations are increasingly driving businesses to consider environmental issues during product development, promoting the idea of Design for Environment (DfE). A number of different approaches to DfE have emerged as this concept takes hold, which cover the spectrum from Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to guidelines for design to Design for Disassembly. Conducting a full LCA is very difficult for those who are not familiar with the method, such as design teams charged with the development of complex products (e.g., electronic devices or cars). Other approaches to DfE address specific concerns but have limitations in scope and applicability. To fully address the concept of DfE, most companies require an integrated approach that provides life cycle data for their products and addresses regulatory and consumer concerns. This paper will present how each of these different DfE approaches falls short with respect to the requirements of a product design team. It will present how these methodologies can be combined to provide a robust life cycle design tool, and it will outline how it would meet the needs of a typical design team.This paper presents the concept of Environmental Quality related to the supply chain of an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), This concept embodies an Environmental Performance Tool, which generates a relative Normalized Environmental Performance per supplier. Such a performance can be integrated into the Supply-Chain Strategy related to Eco-Supplier Development and Contracting. This business approach is compared with LCA Method Eco-Indicator '95, which generates an absolute environmental load per kilogram produced printed board related to different environmental effects. Both approaches have been applied at production facilities of printed board suppliers. Based on research results, both approaches are discussed and advantages and disadvantages are shown.Electronic products consist of various materials, need a lot of sophisticated manufacturing processes and are manufactured from many different suppliers. These conditions make environmental assessments even more complicated. The approach of a model based Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) / Life Cycle Engineering (LCE) means managing complex process models from the basis of a background database. Despite of the demanding conditions of electronics industry this offers the opportunity to provide transparent and summarized results with an acceptable time effort. It is realized by forming flexible modules with parameter variation that show already modeled parts and subassemblies which can be chosen from the database. These modules -that can be combined like a tool kit- will be exemplary demonstrated by the LCA of a copier machine. The 
parameter variation offers the possibility to adapt the modules to the specific product properties and subassembly modifications as far as they are given. Also the interactions within the different life cycle phases can be quickly modeled and analyzed. Even with no detailed material information of single parts and subassemblies the model based approach allows a LCA of the entire product by using those pre-calculated LCA profiles. The case study will present the relation between given information and gained LCA results by using the generic modules based LCA method. This study was partially supported by NEDO/JEMAI and we thank them for the financial support.This article reports on a study carried out within Ericsson Radio Systems. The aim was to provide input to an Ericsson strategy for treatment of end-of-life products. A representative product was sent for recycling to five different recycling companies in Japan, Europe and the USA. An evaluation was made from technical, economic and environmental perspectives. The options for end-of-life treatment, manual disassembly and mechanized shredding were compared. The result of the economic evaluation favored shredding. A Life Cycle Assessment carried out simultaneously ranked shredding and manual disassembly equally, assuming there is no hazardous substance contents providing a problem when shredding.Electronic products are so complex and fast evolving that specific life cycle analysis (LCA) during the product development are still not feasible. One successful alternative is a modular evaluation concept. The spectrum of companies in electronics - from the small, specialized company where one person handles all environmental affairs to the global players with their own environmental research departments - requires a flexible mixture of basic research and reliable data generation, contract R&D, and the transfer of results and methods into management workflows. Several electronic systems mainly from information and communications products have been assessed with a different number of modules, depending on the expected or necessary width and depth of results. For all examples optimization strategies and specific improvements will be shown.Increasing global population and consumption are causing declining natural and social systems. Sustainable development addresses these issues by integrating strategies for economic success, environmental quality, and social equity. This approach seeks to achieve long-term prosperity by removing operational constraints to growth through a focus on resource productivity and eco-efficiency. The key to success in sustainable development is innovative technology development and management. Many companies are showing that the best way to achieve this is by managing their supply chain network. Supply chain networks leverage resources to systematically develop products and innovate outside their internal technology management framework and resource base. This can translate into more technology innovation with less cost and more speed than the traditional vertically integrated approach. However, inefficiencies in supply chain processes can cause operational constraints, such as greenhouse gas emission limits that prevent the realization of technological advances. The adaptation of resource productivity and eco-efficiency practices helps to remove these constraints and driv
e toward sustainability. Although there is increasing interest in the business potential of sustainable development, there is no consensus, agreed upon context, or ''environmental metric" on how to measure progress. This paper proposes such a metric and demonstrates its link to supply chain effectiveness and competitive advantage. EcoPro, The Universal Environmental Metric, allows changes in the various types of environmental aspects to be evaluated together in relation to progress toward sustainability. It allows the concepts of resource productivity and eco-efficiency to be quantified in a convenient and meaningful way through the resource productivity indicator RP and the eco-efficiency index EE. These can be used as both leading (predictive) and lagging (evaluative) indicators of environmental performance. EcoPro balances environmental impact with economic output, provides a practical, quantitative criteria for sustainability (EE greater than or equal to 1), and demonstrates that the terms eco-efficiency and sustainability are synonymous. EcoPro utilizes and extends the methodology and terminology of the Environmental Management System approach now being widely implemented, e.g., ISO 14001, and addresses the guidance found in ISO 14031 on selecting environmental performance evaluation indicators and in ISO 14031 for life cycle analysis. Preliminary calculations on different Lucent product lines have provided insights into where environment,al investments should be focused to achieve the highest return on investment and risk reduction. We believe that this approach provides a practical basis for measuring continual improvement in environmental performance, sustainability, and associated competitive advantage. Using EcoPro, operational efficiencies of a firm and its suppliers can be evaluated without divulging sensitive business information. When extended to the full product lifecycle, EcoPro will provide customers with a product differentiator that can capture market share.Quantum Corporation, a computer storage products company, recently designed a new packaging system for their bulk hard disk drive product shipped to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). The system involves a packaging design with a smaller environmental footprint and, more significantly, collection and reuse of the used packaging from OEM sites worldwide. The general analysis of the new packaging system is that of a traditional investment problem, with up front costs in terms of redesign, program rollout, etc., and expected savings over time from reduced use of packaging. Although some cost savings are expected once collection of used packaging replaces a threshold amount of new packaging purchases, costs of implementation were generally higher than predicted, and participation has been slower. The program should reduce package material costs by 30% at long-run peak usage. Because one of the primary drivers for the new system was to reduce environmental damages, the life cycle impacts of switching to the new packaging system were estimated using Carnegie Mellon University's Life Cycle Assessment method (available at http://www.eiolca.net/). The associated life cycle impacts suggest that energy and global warming emissions will be reduced by about 40%. This is significant because use of transportation networks will be increased with takeback.A partnership approach
 to performing an industry-wide environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA) of cathode ray tube (CRT) and liquid crystal display (LCD) computer monitors is being conducted under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Design for the Environment Program. This approach encourages unbiased data collection and methodology development. Preliminary results from the product use life-cycle stage found that impacts calculated for the manufactured life of a monitor are on the order of 4 times greater than those estimated for an "effective (actual) life. Results also found the impacts from CRT use were approximately 2.7 times that of the LCD use and that potential variability in these findings must be considered when comparing use stage impacts to other life-cycle stages.The paper describes the application of an environmental assessment procedure to a manufacturer of lawn trimmers. The company makes six different sizes of trimmers. The paper brings out the unique features of such an operation when examined in light of environmental impact. The objective of this study is to help the manufacturer in making decisions such that environmental Factors become part of the company's operating policies.The paper discusses the concepts of Life Cycle Assessment and Design for the Environment. The procedures used in their application are described. An example of the development of a telephone terminal is given.Because of its importance a technique for systematically analyzing a product from gradle-to-grave, as the first of all helpful methods is the so called Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) technique. LCA is used as a tool to identify the weak points in a product design. These weak points show us where changes in product design will lead to improvements of the product's environmental profile. With the co-operation of the product manufacturer, a selection is made of the different options for improvement. Based on this selection a changed concept of the product will be elaborated which can be screened by means of a LCA to be sure the total environmental profile has been improved.During the management of municipal solid wastes there are a number of activities which result in emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) which are believed to cause to Global Warming. These are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). As all sectors of society will have to start reducing these emissions, effort is needed to address the greenhouse gas contribution resulting from waste management. A life-cycle analysis was performed to determine the GHG benefit of using composting in an Ontario municipality to divert organic waste (yard trimmings plus industrial organic waste such as lees from wine industry and renderings from animal processing plants) from landfill disposal and to determine the full emissions per tonne from landfilling, incinerating or backyard composting of food scraps. By excluding any carbon sequestering in landfills, it was found that 34, 122 tCO(2)e (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) could be prevented from being emitted over the next 12 years by composting yard waste. However, when including carbon sequestering in landfills, it was found that there was no short-term GHG benefit to yard waste composting; more carbon was being stored in the landfill than being emitted as CO2 and CH4. For the management. of food waste, it has been estimated that landfill
ing will result in 0.120 tCO(2)e per tonne of food waste, but incineration and backyard composting will result in only 0.053 and 0.049 tCO(2)e per tonne of food waste. It is nitrous oxide emissions during backyard composting which causes this activity to become a positive contributor of GHG emissions. As a result, organic/yard waste composting may or may not have less GHG emissions than landfilling. However, for food waste management, backyard composting and incineration result in similar emissions and both are better than landfilling.Since the data involved in product life cycle is complicated, the time when old data produce passed longer, the local area where data being collected scattered widely, at present the database technical can't fit the requirement of product life cycle assessment (LCA). In this paper, we study on the practice of using data warehouse technical in product life cycle assessment software including the database warehouse system model of LCA and its structure, the WEB technical used to collect data from different location and so on.Nuclear energy is the major source of the electricity generation due to the lack of domestic energy in Korea. In recent years, environmental preservation concern has been increased for more efficient management of nuclear energy. Therefore it is necessary to apply Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology including environmental management system, waste reduction schemes and environmental analysis methods. In this study, LCA methodology is introduced to the nuclear power generation system and environmental burden caused by this system is assessed. This study suggests new methodology for environmental assessment and establishes the extensive infradatabase related with nuclear power generation system. Also, it is possible to improve the scientific basis of LCA with the emphasis on the nuclear power generation system. Therefore, this study consists of general framework of LCA such as goal and scope, inventory analysis, impact assessment, and valuation of the nuclear power generation system. The major objectives are to identify the environmental impact and the environmentally most dominant stage in life cycle of nuclear power generation system and to suggest the new methodology to solve the problem when LCA is applied to facility releasing the radioactive wastes. Thus this study is useful to improve the environmental impact assessment of nuclear power generation system and to promote the methodology of LCA. (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper addresses external cost and multi-criteria analyses carried out for selected future electricity generating systems of interest under the Swiss conditions. The external cost estimates are based on an application of the "impact pathway approach", enriched by earlier experience from extensive Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The estimated total costs, i.e. the sum of internal and external costs may serve as a measure of economic and environmental efficiency of energy systems. The multi-criteria approach allows a more explicit consideration of the social dimension, highly important for the decision process. The applications of multi-criteria analysis illustrate the sensitivity of the results to a range of preferences expressed in the energy debate. Certain patterns in systems ranking can be observed in spite of these sensitivi
ties. Both total cost assessment and multicriteria analysis are found to be useful, complementary instruments to support the decision process.The management system for solid and liquid organic waste affects the environment and surrounding technical systems in several ways. In order to decrease the environmental impact and resource use, biological waste treatment and alternative solutions for sewage treatment are often advocated. These alternatives include increased agricultural use of waste residuals. To analyse whether such proposed systems indicate improvements for the environment and its sustainability, systems analysis is a useful method The changes in environmental impact and resource use is not only a result of changes in waste treatment methods, but also largely a result of changes in surrounding systems (energy and agriculture) caused by changes in waste management practices. In order to perform a systems analysis, a substance-flow simulation model, the organic waste research model (ORWARE), has been used. The results are evaluated by using methodology from life cycle assessment (LCA). An economic analysis was also performed on three of the studied scenarios. The management system for solid organic waste and sewage in the municipality of Uppsala, Sweden, was studied. Three scenarios for different treatments of solid waste were analysed: incineration with heat recovery, composting, and anaerobic digestion. These three scenarios included conventional sewage treatment. A fourth scenario reviewed was anaerobic digestion of solid waste, using urine-separating toilets and separate handling of the urine fraction. The results are only valid for the case study and under the assumptions made. In this case study anaerobic digestion result in the lowest environmental impact of all the solid waste management systems, but is costly. Economically, incineration with heat recovery is the cheapest way to treat solid waste. Composting gives environmental advantages compared to incineration methods, without significantly increased costs. Urine separation, which may be implemented together with any solid waste treatment, has great advantages, particularly in its low impact on the environment. However, there is a large increase in acidification. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Over the last decades increased use of waste paper as a source of fibre for the pulp and paper production process has meant that the industry has undergone significant changes in material and energy use. However, this means use of technologies that do not generate a significant amount of biomass for energy recovery, and thus requires that more energy is purchased by the industry. If waste paper is incinerated instead of repulped, energy purchases by society can be reduced, which will have a positive effect on CO2 emissions. In this article, we argue that an analysis of these effects requires a systems analytical approach including the different production lines, fibre flows and alternative uses of the fibre rather than a life cycle analysis with allocation methods. In the latter case, one often looks at just one production process and uses allocation methods for in- and outflow from or to other processes. We show that allocation methods sometimes used in life cycle analyses do not give a good approximation. Thus, it is recommended that allocation be avoided by,
 for example, expanding the system. If allocation cannot be avoided, the allocation should be based on the way in which the inputs and outputs are changed by quantitative changes in the products or functions delivered by the system. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Steel making technology poses strong potentials for environmental protection in three direction. One is pollution control on steel making process itself. Japanese steel industry has cut down various type of emission drastically since 1970's. Secondary, those process technology can be applied to reduce environmental burden in other industrial sectors. One of the successful examples is municipal waste treatment facility. Thirdly, development; of high performance steel products, such as high strength steel for automobile body, can contribute to improve environmental performance during their use, based on the concept of life cycle assessment. Some examples of the successful development and future task is discussed.Recycling should be: promoted to keep the global environment. However, it is difficult to determine the quantitative impact. A life cycle assessment is one of the most reliable methods to estimate the global environment impact. Exergy is useful like entropy when considering the sustainable development. All of our activities have been obtained exergy resources and/or energy itself and throw away waste and/or waste heat. We are trying to use exergy to estimate the quantity of energy and matter for resource accounting. For recycling plastic, plastic has two aspects: material and energy source. The environmental assessment of plastic recycling suggests that the exergy reduction of the entire system is estimated by the yield of matter and the process efficiency. The material recycling is better than the thermal recycling when the process efficiency is high. However, the thermal recycling, is much better for the low efficiency. The transition point is able to be decided by the efficiency of the manufacturing and the electric power generation.Efforts to reduce energy use in freight transportation usually center around "mode-based" approaches, namely improving the energy efficiency of energy intensive modes, such as truck, and shifting more freight to energy efficient modes, such as rail. In the first part of this paper we review the recent trends and future prospects for these mode-based approaches, finding that despite substantial improvement in the technological efficiency of freight modes and robust growth in the use of intermodal rail since 1980, total freight energy use across all modes in the US has grown by approximately 33%, with proportional growth in carbon emissions, In the second part of the paper we propose use of a "commodity-based" approach, in which freight energy use is disaggregated by contribution of major commodity groups, in order to support efficiency improvement at the commodity level. Two potential applications of the commodity based approach, namely (1) life cycle analysis of energy use for major commodity groups and (2) spatial analysis of freight patterns, are demonstrated using the 1993 US Commodity Flow Survey data. Results of these preliminary findings suggest that commodity groups vary widely in the ratio of energy use in production to energy use in transport, and that for many commodity groups, there may be substantial opportunit
ies for saving energy by redistributing flow patterns. Through development of the commodity-based approach, we also identify the collaborative involvement of shippers and carriers as a key point in improving energy efficiency, since it can be used to both make the mode-based approach more effective and address new issues such as the underlying growth in tonne-km, Benefits for air quality and other transportation issues are also discussed. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd, All rights reserved.This paper describes a set of visualization techniques that will support the training of environmental economic input-output life-cycle assessment (EIO-LCA) users. ETO-LCA is a software tool used to estimate the environmental effects of any product throughout the course of its life. The process of estimating the environmental effects of a product using the EIO-LCA software prototype consists of the following steps: problem formulation, computations, and results analysis. Empirical software evaluation has shown that user solutions to EIO-LCA problems yield large variability; therefore, users need to have a clearer understanding of the model, and they need to be trained. Instead of using only long tutorial documents and tables to train the users to use the data sources, we have designed a software tool that uses visualization tools to train users in the problem formulation and data analysis tasks. For the problem-formulation task, the coloring matrices will allow users to better understand the economic data used. Also, treemaps are included so users can evaluate the relationships between different levels of aggregation used in the problem formulation. Treemaps were used to allow users to understand both the direct and indirect effects in the results analysis.A general mathematical model has been developed as a tool for environmental evaluation of industrial chemical processes. This model is based on the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology and includes a modular and cumulative conceptual approximation. Accordingly, the model considers the potential effects on the environment caused by mass, energy and exergy flows. For environmental loads related with mass flows, two main categories are defined: pollution and perturbation environmental effects. Whereas for the environmental effect associated with energy flows, a factor defined as "energy dissipation" is employed, and similarly for exergy flows, a "exergy destruction" parameter is used. The measurement unit employed throughout the model is expressed in terms of "potential environmental impact units/hour". As an example study case, the integrated production chain (IPC) for nitric acid production in the Colombian context is evaluated. This particular IPC includes the ammonia production plant, energy plants and main process plant. The results demonstrate that for environmental perturbation effects based on mass flows, the main contribution in the IPC corresponds to the energy plants. In the case of pollution environmental loads, the principal contribution relates to ammonia production. Regarding environmental effects associated with energy flows, the highest "energy dissipation" factor corresponds to the main process, followed in order by the ammonia process. Finally, for the effect denominated as "exergy destruction", it could be established that Colombian energy plants show the highest contribution in the
 IPC. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The history of water pollution control and environmental management in Japan is outlined. Particular attention is paid to Minamata disease and other impacts of industrial pollution, and the consequent development of environmental legislation. The growth of sewerage systems and more recently of wastewater and sludge reuse are noted, before considering the application of the concept of life cycle assessment, which is increasingly central to the minimisation of environmental impacts.Life cycle assessment (LCA) on total sewage sludge treatment systems including thickening. anaerobic digestion, dewatering, and incineration/melting was performed to estimate a global warming impact as carbon dioxide (CO2) emission. As representative processes for the assessment, the most typical and widely used processes were selected. Generally. the life cycle of actual treatment facilities consists of three stages: construction. operation and dismantlement. In this study, the amount of CO2 produced from the life cycle steps of existing unit sludge treatment processes, was calculated by inventory analysis of input materials. In addition, for all processes investigated, individual CO2 emission units (CEUs), i.e. the amount of emitted CO2 for treating a unit weight of sludge, were also calculated. By using the obtained CEU matrix, it was possible to simulate the CO2 production from various types of complex treatment systems as well as to trace the dominant cause of CO2 production in individual treatment processes.This analysis suggests that a holistic or life-cycle approach be taken when assessing the longterm sustainability of sludge reuse options, issues such as compliance with world best practice environmental/health standards, energy usage, greenhouse gas emissions, odour control and volume reduction must now be taken into account when assessing the long-term sustainability and public acceptability of the various management options. Four major criteria for the assessment of sludge reuse options are proposed and five management options are assessed using these criteria. The results indicate that traditional land application reuse options must be evaluated in more detail to confirm whether they offer a long-term sustainable management option. Newer thermal based management options may however provide long-term sustainable management options.Membrane processes have recently been applied much more extensively by South African industry. A number of the older plants have suffered from fouling problems, sometimes brought on by changes in the feed stream. Newer installations are tending to apply the techniques of Cleaner Production to more closely integrate the membrane process into the manufacturing process and to reduce the size of the installation. There has been a trend to investigate methods of using the brine in place of discharging it to the environment. Membrane related research is still very active and a range of current initiatives is provided.In order to get more detailed information for better decision making in future biogenic waste treatment, different processes to treat biogenic wastes in plants with a treating capacity of 10,000 tons of organic household wastes per year were compared. The comparison included life cycle assessments as well as economic considerations for different treating methods
. Measurements on compost plants showed that methane emissions are higher than estimated so far. With the tools ECOINDICATOR and UBP anaerobic digestion shows to be advantageous as compared to composting, incineration or combination of digestion and composting, mainly because of a better energy balance. In fully enclosed, professional treatment plants, the specific biotechnological treatment costs are in the range of about 150.-sFr/ton for aerobic, anaerobic and combined technologies. it can be concluded, that anaerobic processes will become considerably more important in the future mainly for ecological reasons.The methods of ecological balancing up to its recent state of art are developed mainly from the analysis of industrial products. When they are applied to agricultural subjects it is attempted to analyse as broad as possible the fluxes of matter caused by agricultural activities within the framework of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The fluxes of matter and energy of machine employment and of the provision of means of production (seeds, fertiliser, pesticides) have to be investigated in order to reflect on cropping measures. The results of the expenditures for the production of pesticides both show lacks and emissions within the spectrum of active substances being offered. Different publications and own studies are investigated with regard to this state of affairs. On the basis of site specific crop rotations (loess area in Lower Saxony and a site in the basin of Uelzen), the shares of pesticide expenditure in the life cycle inventory of different crops are calculated and assessed for material and energy inputs and for the environmental effects. Finally, methodical approaches for the impact assessment of pesticide applications are discussed in view of the pest management and the environmental fate of pesticides.The life cycle analysis (LCA) for different methods of weed control was carried out by the ifeu-Institute Heidelberg in cooperation with the SLFA-Neustadt, department of ecology. Eight different types of weed control (mechanical and chemical) were analyzed for the governement of Rheinland-Pfalz between the years 1996 and 1998. The LCA was carried out under the rules of ISO 14040 and was sucessfully reviewed by independent experts. Urban planning and decision-making for sustainable development urgently need data of high spatial resolution to establish the relationship between the socio-economic performance of the urban system and its different sub-units (i.e. housing schemes, commercial and industrial developments, services) on the one hand and their environmental impacts of these subunits on the other. To achieve this task, a system was developed to delineate urban land cover units. The approach was tested for the city of Munich. The units delineate the fine-grained pattern of urban built-up and open spaces. The typology was based on established categories of zoning and development plans. In addition, the units were delineated on an aggregated scale to generate a synoptic understanding of the urban "metabolism" for different "strategic" levels of urban planning. A case study on urban hydrology is presented to characterize aspects of the metabolism of the urban system. Additional case studies covered urban climates, energy demand for space heating and carbon dioxide emissions. Results showed that the cover units and types had d
istinct environmental features. Furthermore the causal links with urban physical and land use features were investigated. Based on the hydrological case study, environmental targets and standards to promote sustainable development are proposed. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
 We used a multilayered, backpropagation neural network to investigate the relative effects of yearly weather and long-term climate patterns on the abundance of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus: hereafter, bobwhite) in Oklahoma, USA. Bobwhite populations have been declining for several decades across the United States, and predicted global climate change might accelerate the rate of decline. We were interested in whether bobwhite abundance was more responsive to yearly precipitation and temperature, or to annual deviations from long-term mean climate patterns. We used roadside count data collected over a 6 year period (1991-1997) by the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation as a measure of bobwhite abundance. We standardized quail counts among counties by calculating the standard normal deviate for each county. Weather data were obtained from weather stations closest to the roadside-count route. We had 280 training cases and 68 test-validation cases. Two data sets were constructed: one using yearly weather data (actual rainfall and temperature) and the second using annual deviations from long-term mean values. We conducted simulation analyses to determine the nature of the relationship between each dependent variable and the standardized bobwhite counts. A neural network with eight neurons was most efficient for the yearly weather data, accounting for 25% of the variation in the training data. The adjusted sum-of-squares for this model was 2.42. A four-neuron network was selected for the deviation-from-normal data set, accounting for 23% of the variation in the training data. The adjusted sum-of-squares for the deviation model was 1.44, indicating it performed better than the model for yearly weather patterns. Deviation from long-term mean July and August temperatures combined contributed 31.5% to the climate network's predictions, and deviations from mean winter, spring, and summer precipitation combined contributed 42.8% to the network's predictions. As July temperature increased over the long-term mean, the number of bobwhites counted increased over the route mean, but the relationship decelerated at high July temperatures. Predicted increases in bobwhites counted were highest when August temperatures were below the mean and decreased rapidly for all temperatures greater than the mean. Predicted bobwhite counts increased asymptotically as winter rain increased over the long-term mean, but were greatest at mean spring-rainfall amounts and at below average amounts of summer rainfall. We conclude that the absolute changes in yearly weather pattern predicted by some global change models will not have as great an impact on bobwhite abundance as will the magnitude of the deviations of these values from the climate bobwhites are adapted to in this portion of their range. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Technological research and development are among the most frequently advocated strategies for adapting agriculture to possible future changes in climate. However, while many statements point to the reliance that is placed on technology, and to the power of induced innovation, the actual process of agricultural research and development has received little explicit consideration in the context of climatic constraints on food production. This paper offers both a descriptive assessment and empirical analysis of the 
place of technology research and development in climate adaptation research and planning. Insights into the assumed role of technology are developed through a review of the published literature and recent commentary. The role of technological innovation in the handling of climatic risks is then explored empirically in an analysis of innovation research and development in the Ontario soybean industry. This reveals an array of technological innovations that have helped Ontario soybean-growers manage climatic challenges to date, as well as a range of potential constraints on the innovation process itself. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved. Funding for greenhouse gas mitigation projects in developing countries is crucial for addressing the global climate change problem. By examining current climate change-related financial mechanisms and their limitations, this paper indicates that their roles are limited in affecting developing countries' future emissions, and argues for the necessity of stronger private sector engagement in financing mitigation projects. In this regard, the clean development mechanism (CDM), one of the flexibility mechanisms incorporated into the Kyoto Protocol, could offer great potential in helping mobilize foreign direct investment towards climate mitigation, by providing commercial incentives for the private sector to invest in mitigation projects and internalizing externalities associated with mitigation projects. However, due to additional risks and barriers involved in CDM projects, we believe that appropriate public-private linkage would be necessary in order to bring the CDM into full play. To this end, we suggest that public funds could be used to complement private investment via the CDM, thus enhancing market functions of such an investment. Moreover, in so doing, we think that it would be necessary to examine a host of factors, such as risk sharing, private sector investment behaviour, types of technologies to be transferred, and co-ordination with the commonly practiced trade and investment rules. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Monitoring and evaluation of forestry projects is needed to accurately determine their impact on greenhouse gas emissions and other attributes, and to ensure that the global climate is protected and that country obligations are met. We present an overview of guidelines recently developed for the monitoring, evaluation, reporting, verification, and certification of forestry projects for climate change mitigation.(1) These guidelines are targeted to developers, evaluators, verifiers, and certifiers of forestry projects, and address several key issues, including methods for estimating gross and net carbon savings. The next phase of our work will be to develop a procedural handbook providing information on how one can complete monitoring, evaluation and verification forms. We then plan to test the usefulness of these handbooks in the real world. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper provides an overview of Canadian climate change policy. It is argued that voluntary action will contribute little to climate change mitigation and that forest management strategies can, at most, contribute some 7.5 percent of Canada's required Kyoto CO2-emissions reduction target. To do so requires tree-planting subsidies, which are inefficient locally
 and globally. In the arena of land-use change and forest strategies, Kyoto's Clean Development Mechanism offers a more efficient alternative to domestic strategies.Although emissions trading lowers the costs of climate change mitigation, transaction costs (e.g. to find a trading partner) may reduce its cost-effectiveness. Some economists claim that transaction costs for Joint Implementation (JI) and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects will be higher than for International Emissions Trading (IET) transfers, arguing that projects require advance approval whereas permit transfers can be automatically registered and checked annually. However, this article demonstrates the incompleteness of their views by both analyzing empirical data and discussing the theoretical conditions under which transaction costs decrease for JI and CDM and increase for IET. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has recently released its Third Assessment Report (TAR), in which new projections are given for global-mean warming in the absence of policies to limit climate change. The full warming range over 1990 to 2100, 1.4 degrees to 5.8 degreesC, is substantially higher than the range given previously in the IPCC Second Assessment Report. Here we interpret the new warming range in probabilistic terms, accounting for uncertainties in emissions, the climate sensitivity, the carbon cycle, ocean mixing, and aerosol forcing. We show that the probabilities of warming values at both the high and Low ends of the TAR range are very Low. In the absence of climate-mitigation policies, the 90% probability interval for 1990 to 2100 warming is 1.7 degrees to 4.9 degreesC.Various studies of public opinion regarding the causes and consequences of climate change reveal both a deep reservoir of concern, yet also a muddle over causes, consequences and appropriate policy measures for mitigation. The technique adopted here, namely integrated assessment (IA) focus groups, in which groups of randomly selected individuals in Switzerland looked at models of possible consequences of climate change and questioned specialists as to their accuracy and meaning, revealed a rich assembly of reactions. Respondents were alarmed about the consequences of high-energy futures, and mollified by images of low-energy futures. Yet they also erected a series of psychological barriers to justify why they should not act either individually or through collective institutions to mitigate climate change. From the viewpoint of changing their lifestyles of material comfort and high-energy dependence, they regarded the consequences of possible behavioural shift arising from the need to meet mitigation measures as more daunting. To overcome the dissonance created in their minds they created a number of socio-psychological denial mechanisms. Such mechanisms heightened the costs of shifting away from comfortable lifestyles, set blame on the inaction of others, including governments, and emphasised doubts regarding the immediacy of personal action when the effects of climate change seemed uncertain and far away. These findings suggest that more attention needs to be given to the social and psychological motivations as to why individuals erect barriers to their personal commitment to climate change mitigation, even when professing anxiety over clima
te futures. Prolonged and progressive packages of information tailored to cultural models or organised belief patterns, coupled to greater community based policy incentives may help to widen the basis of personal and moral responsibility. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.To investigate the potential local health benefits of adopting greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation policies, we develop scenarios of GHG mitigation for Mexico City, Mexico; Santiago, Chile; Sao Paulo, Brazil; and New York, New York, USA using air pollution health impact factors appropriate to each city. We estimate that the adoption of readily available technologies to lessen fossil fuel emissions over the next two decades in these four cities alone will reduce particulate matter and ozone and avoid approximately 64,000 (95% confidence interval [CI] 18.000-116,000) premature deaths (including infant deaths), 65,000 (95% CI 22,000-108,000) chronic bronchitis cases, and 37 million (95% CI 27-47 million) person-days of work loss or other restricted activity. These findings illustrate that GHG mitigation can provide considerable local air pollution-related public health benefits to countries that choose to abate GHG emissions by reducing fossil fuel combustion.The organic matter content of many soils in West Africa has been depleted due to overgrazing, agricultural mismanagement, deforestation and overexploitation of the natural resources. Degraded agro(eco)systems can be managed to increase carbon sinks in vegetation and soil, and to reduce carbon emissions to the atmosphere. The capacity for sequestering carbon will increase as annual precipitation increases, and generally as mean temperature decreases, provided the soil and terrain conditions are not limiting for crop (biomass) growth. The agroecological suitability of three pilot sites, proposed for soil carbon sequestration projects in Senegal, is assessed and the feasibility of various management options to increase organic carbon levels in the soil is discussed. For the future, a Land Resources Information System should be developed to consider detailed data on climate, soil and terrain conditions, status of soil degradation, and land-use systems for West Africa. Upon its linkage to a dynamic soil carbon model and a socio-economic module, such an integrated system can be used to assess the ecotechnological and socio-economic potential for carbon sequestration projects in the context of the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) proposed under article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. If adapted, this mechanism could confer funds to West African countries for the sustainable use and conservation of their natural resources, thereby providing economic, environmental and societal benefits for local populations, while simultaneously contributing to climate change mitigation. Copyright (C) 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.We are just beginning to evaluate and model the contributions policies make toward improving energy efficiency. In this article, three recent studies are reviewed. They represent an important step in the analyses of climate-change mitigation strategies. All studies model estimated policy impacts rather than the policies themselves. Often the policy impacts are based on assumptions, as the effects of a policy are not certain. Most models incorporate on
ly economic (or price) tools, which, for estimating impacts, costs, and benefits of mitigation strategies, recent studies have proven are insufficient. The studies reviewed are a first effort to capture the effects of nonprice policies. They contribute to a better understanding of the role of policies in improving energy efficiency and mitigating climate change. All policy scenarios result in substantial energy savings compared with the baseline scenario used: they also result in substantial net benefits to the US economy. Because the industrial sector is the most diverse and, arguably, the most challenging energy-demand sector to model, studying policies for them is no easy task. The challenges, which are many, fall into two categories: appropriate level of detail (i.e., sector, technology, and policy) and representations of decision making. A better understanding of decision-making behavior, technology choice, and policy impact and effectiveness is needed to improve our understanding of the potential effectiveness of future energy efficiency policies as well as to improve policy modeling. With these developments, the current and next-generation policy models and studies have the potential to become richer representations of the industrial sector.Although, it has received relatively little attention as a potential method of combating climate change in comparison to energy reduction measures and development of carbon-free energy technologies, sequestration of carbon dioxide in geologic or biospheric sinks has enormous potential. This paper reviews the potential for sequestration using geological and ocean storage as a means of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Considerable quantities of carbon dioxide separated from natural gas deposits and from hydrogen production from steam reforming of methane are already used in enhanced oil recovery and in extraction of coalbed methane, the carbon dioxide remaining sequestered at the end of the process. A number of barriers lie in the way of its implementation on a large scale. There are concerns about possible environmental effects of large-scale injection of carbon dioxide especially into the oceans. Available technologies, especially of separating and capturing the carbon dioxide from waste stream, have high costs at present, perhaps representing an additional 40-100% onto the costs of generating electricity. In most of the world there are no mechanisms to encourage firms to consider sequestration. Considerable R&D is required to bring down the costs of the process, to elucidate the environmental effects of storage and to ensure that carbon dioxide will not escape from stores in unacceptably short timescales. However, the potential of sequestration should not be underestimated as a contribution to global climate change mitigation measures.Against increasing scientific evidence of human-induced global warming, and prevailing uncertainties regarding the fate of the Kyoto Protocol, the use of environmental taxes has been gaining increasing popularity in the OECD region. Economists often conjecture that such instruments provide a continuous incentive for technological innovation, which is likely to be a key determinant for success or failure in climate policy, at least in the long turn. However, there is little empirical evidence available to justify claims of that kind. The objective of this paper i
s to provide such evidence, by assessing the impacts of Norwegian CO(2)-taxes, the key instrument in Norway's climate policy, on technological innovation in upstream petroleum operations. The balance of evidence suggests that the introduction of CO(2)-taxes has provided some incentive for innovation that has shifted petroleum operations in a less emission-intensive direction. That said, the pattern of technological change pertains mostly to incremental process innovations, cumulative improvements, and adaptations of technologies already available. These insights may assist policymakers when formulating policy strategies and selecting instruments for climate change mitigation.Recent progress in decarbonization processes and engineered storage systems for CO2, together with preliminary cost estimates for these technologies, indicate that capture and storage Of CO2 Will have a major role to play in achieving deep reductions in emissions. These technologies hold the potential to reduce the cost of stabilizing the concentration of greenhouse gases, the ultimate objective of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (FCCC). Their value rises as the allowable level of cumulative carbon emissions declines. The value of these technologies is robust regardless of whether the world's economically recoverable oil and gas resources are eventually found to be large or small. This paper considers the economic implication of those advances in the context of long-term, global climate change mitigation strategies. This indicates the need for a broad, robust research and development strategy to reduce the cost of separating CO2 and to make accessible the widest range of storage reservoirs. It is also important to demonstrate excellent security of storage, in order to win public acceptance of the use of capture and storage techniques.The near- to mid-term deployment of carbon capture and sequestration technologies can accelerate the process of significantly reducing emissions of carbon dioxide under a wide range of policy scenarios and reduce significantly the costs of complying with a climate change mitigation protocol -- by as much as $1 trillion over the period 2005-2050. These carbon capture and sequestration technologies also allow the continued use of fossil fuels, while reducing their carbon emissions and keeping the cost of electricity generated from fossil fuels competitive with other generation technologies.Substantial efforts will be required to enable the world to reduce the output of greenhouse gases below levels which would otherwise be expected to accompany the population growth and economic development anticipated over the next century. Many hope that technology will provide solutions to meet this challenge. The International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) organized a workshop to examine the results of several major greenhouse gas mitigation technology assessment programmes. Outlined are general guidelines elaborated at the IPIECA workshop for effective assessments of these greenhouse gas mitigating technologies. Factors including capacity (how much reduction or limitation a given technology could provide), timing (how soon could the technology become significant in the market place), and cost or commercial viability are critical in effective assessment of technology options. In addition, assessments sh
ould also consider the economic, political and social implications of the technology, as well as its possible ancillary environmental effects. Current assessments of technologies demonstrate that a range of factors need to be considered when assessing greenhouse gas mitigating technologies, and that a suite of technologies will be required to achieve reductions - there is no magic bullet.This paper outlines a methodological framework for the economic evaluation Of CO2 emissions abatement policies and measures, formulating a basis for the selection of those options of climate change mitigation interventions that minimize the economic cost and maximize the social welfare, To this purpose, a Cost Benefit Analysis has been implemented in order to evaluate a variety Of CO2 emission abatement measures in the Greek energy sector on the basis of their social (i.e. the sum of the private and external) costs and benefits, and it is compared with a Cost Effectiveness Analysis, which takes into account only the net financial costs of the examined interventions. The analysis clearly reveals that a significant decrease in CO2 emissions is possible without great cost to the economy. Moreover, the monetization of environmental benefits (e.g. restriction of impacts on human health, agriculture, biodiversity, etc.) associated with the above mentioned interventions represents a powerful tool for highlighting priority actions in the context of a climate change mitigation policy and quantifying their overall economic and environmental effectiveness. Industrial ecology (IE) promotes the development of industrial systems based on recycling of matter and cascading of energy through cooperation. In this paper, the local/regional industrial ecosystem approach is reflected in two examples from Finland. The local forest industry system is based on renewable resources, waste materials and energy utilisation between forestry companies, a saw-mill, a pulp mill, a paper mill and a forest industry power plant. Waste energy from electricity production is used for production of heat and process steam. Regional city energy supply systems in Finland are also to a large extent arranged around power plants that utilise waste energy. The potential of combining the forest industry system with the energy supply systems of cities is considered and the conditions for success in the Finnish case are discussed. (C) 2001 Academic Press.Industrial Ecology is an industrial environmental management concept with an analogy in the natural ecosystem, In an ecosystem, materials are recycled between organisms, and energy is embedded in the matter of the food chain, while the only external input to the system as a whole is the solar energy. An Industrial Ecosystem is a system where the industrial actors use this natural recycling model and co-operate by using each other's waste material and waste energy flows to minimize the system virgin material and energy input as well as the waste and emission output from the system as a whole. In theory, the economic environment win-win can be achieved as raw material, emission control and waste management costs are reduced through using waste as a resource of production. In this paper, the material and energy flows of the forest ecosystem are considered, and this natural recycling model is used to construct an industrial ecosystem in the forest industry 
of Finland. Recycling of matter including nutrients and carbon constitutes the basis in the operation of the forest ecosystem as well as in the operation of the forest industry system. The forest industry will use the cycle in these flows as a source of raw materials and energy. An industrial ecosystem is constructed with the flows of matter, nutrients, energy and carbon. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology? A surprising, intriguing expression that immediately draws our attention. The spontaneous reaction is that "industrial ecology" is a contradiction in terms, something of an oxymoron, like "obscure clarity" or "burning ice". Why this reflex? Probably because we are accustomed to considering the industrial system as isolated from the Biosphere, with factories and cities on one side and nature on the other, as well as the recurrent problem of trying to minimise the impact of the industrial system on what is "beyond" it: its surroundings, the "environment". As early as the 1950s, this end-of-pipe angle was the one adopted by ecologists, whose first serious studies focused oil the consequences of the various forms of pollution oil nature. In this perspective on the industrial system, human industrial activity as such remained outside the field of research. Industrial ecology explores the opposite assumption: The industrial system can be seen as a certain kind of ecosystem. After all, the industrial system, just as natural ecosystems, can be described as a particular distribution of materials, energy, and information flows. Furthermore, the entire industrial system relies on resources and services provided by the Biosphere, fi-om which it cannot be dissociated. (It should be specified that "'industrial", in the context of industrial ecology, refers to all human activities occurring within modern technological society. Thus, tourism, housing, medical services, transportation, agriculture, etc. are part of the industrial system) Besides its rigorous scientific conceptual framework (Scientific ecology), industrial ecology can also be seen as a practical approach to sustainability. It is an attempt to address the question, "How can the concept of sustainable development be made operational in an economically feasible way?" Industrial ecology represents precisely one of the paths that could provide concrete solutions. Governments have traditionally approached development and environmental issues in a fragmented and compartimentalised way. This is illustrated in the classical end-of-pipe strategy for the treatment of pollution, which has proven to be quite useful, but not adequate to make all efficient use of limited resources, in the context of a growing population with increasing economic aspirations. Thus, industrial ecology emerges at a time when it is becoming increasingly clear that the traditional pollution treatment approach (end-of-pipe) is not only insufficient to solve environmental problems, but also too costly in the long run.Superior environmental performance has not traditionally been a goal of managers of power generating facilities, but there is now considerable pressure to go "beyond compliance," even for facilities that have been in existence for decades. In this regard, significant environmental improvement can be achieved by taking a life-cycle perspective. We have conducted a streamlined lif
e-cycle assessment on an existing gas/oil-fired generating facility. With the results of this assessment as a basis, we propose a number of generic steps that can be taken to improve the environmental performance of most existing power generating facilities.The Ford Motor Company is a transnational automobile manufacturer and a contemporary cultural icon with immense and far-reaching effects on economy, ecology, and society. As it has been throughout its history, Ford today is often in the public spotlight. Its recent move toward more ecological and sustainable practices, one of the more remarkable developments in business management in decades, has begun to remake Ford's image. As this cultural critique shows, however the continued production of SUVs, a highly profitable but possibly anti-ecological pursuit, is not the only contradiction in Ford's quest to reinvent itself as a green business leader Its core belief (that the world can and should accommodate the desires of mobile consumers, most of whom are both auto enthusiasts and environmentalists) serves as a severely limiting condition. Ford's innovations are noteworthy, but its approach falls short of what is needed from big business to help create a more ecological society.Global population and environmental pressures are challenging multinational companies to develop new business strategies founded upon the principles of sustainability-assuring that they can meet the needs of both present and future generations of customers and stakeholders. Corporate sustainability requires understanding the "triple bottom line", which includes economic, societal, and ecological performance. It involves designing products and processes with a full awareness of their life-cycle costs and benefits, and seeking new technologies to create more value with fewer resources. To put sustainability into practice, companies are beginning to transform their core business processes and develop environmentally and socially responsible products and services. Many are adopting the concepts of industrial ecology and green chemistry in an effort to transform their operations from a linear to a closed-loop business model. This changing climate is creating new opportunities for break-through research and development, ranging from nanotechnology to green chemistry.In the last decade, an area of increasing estuarine research in the New York/New Jersey Harbor has been the identification of toxic contaminant sources, mapping of contaminant levels in water and sediments, and assessment of contaminant accumulation in biota. The accumulation of anthropogenic contamination in the harbor's sediments has occurred for centuries, primarily from land-based municipal and industrial sources. Contaminants from land-based sources introduced into surface waters rapidly become scavenged by suspended particles that then tend to settle to the bottom, primarily in deep areas, such as berths and navigation channels. Several million cubic meters of sediments must be dredged annually to clear navigation channels. In the past, the dredged material was disposed in a designated ocean site. However, in 1992, new testing procedures were implemented, and much of the harbor's dredged material was determined to be unsuitable for ocean placement. It is ironic that these restrictions came at a time when the quality of harbor sediments is improving, la
rgely because of pollution controls implemented as a result of the Clean Water Act and other environmental measures put in place by government and industry. For example, the harbor-wide concentration of mercury has decreased to 0.7-0.8 ppm, a level that is approaching the pre-industrial background level. Nevertheless, in certain areas of the harbor, there remain sufficiently high concentrations of contaminants to merit concern and to create serious problems for sponsors of dredging projects. Development of a basin-wide sediment management strategy is necessary to guide port decision-makers in their efforts to clean-up contaminant sources, to dredge regional waterways, and to ameliorate the contaminated sediment disposal problem. The backbone of this strategy is the integration of the data from an ongoing field monitoring and modeling program with a parallel investigation of watershed and airshed sources and sinks using industrial ecology methodology. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The paper differentiates approaches in technology (end-of-pipe, cleaner production, industrial ecology, zero emission and eco-social-tech) and compares them in respect to the problem solving capacity on the ecological as well as social dimension by showing the eco-impact reduction and job creation. Eco-social-tech represents the approach with highest problem solution as it is based on "eco-social market economy", which will the replace free market economy. The deep background of these innovations is "ecosophy", the wisdom of nature, which serves as guideline for eco-restructuring the world.Human activity to support scientific research in the Antarctic environment poses potential threats to Antarctic ecosystems with regard to materials use and waste generation. To begin to understand the potential environmental impacts, a case study materials flow analysis was carried out for New Zealand's Scott Base. In a typical research season (1 July 1997-30 June 1998), Scott Base consumed 308 tonnes of fossil fuels, producing approximately 1000 tonnes of CO2, 26 tonnes of NOx, and measurable quantities of SOx, CO, particulates, and trace metals. It required 1482 tonnes of freshwater, which produced 1400 tonnes of sewage containing approximately 170 kg of Total Nitrogen, 25 kg of Total Phosphorous, 750 kg of BOD5, and 1250 kg of suspended solids. It received 217.5 tonnes of bulk cargo; 12 tonnes of burnables were incinerated on site and 40 tonnes of rubbish and cargo were returned to New Zealand. Human industrial residues are accumulating in and around Scott Base. In response to this material imbalance, management initiatives to improve environmental performance are discussed, including the transition to non-fossil fuel energy sources to reduce air emissions; the use of an integrated biosystem. to reduce wastewater; and improved building design to reduce solid wastes.Recent decades have witnessed accelerated growth in the demand for construction aggregates in Taiwan. The ecological pressures caused by riverbed mining of aggregates have resulted in shortages in domestic supply. Simultaneously, Taiwan must contend with the accumulated generation of construction wastes. Industrial ecology offers solutions that recover resources from construction wastes. For example, in areas of high-density urban construction, the use of crushed concrete can be economically a
ttractive. To investigate environmentally sound and economically feasible solutions for satisfying future demand, researchers at National Taiwan University and Columbia University propose a study of the long-range consequences of utilizing domestic supply sources including construction waste. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.It is currently believed that science and technology can provide effective solutions to most, if not all, environmental problems facing western industrial societies. The validity of this optimistic assumption is highly questionable for at least three reasons: First, current mechanistic, reductionist science is inherently incapable of providing the complete and accurate information which is required to successfully address environmental problems. Second, both the conservation of mass principle and the second law of thermodynamics dictate that most remediation technologies while successful in solving specific pollution problems - cause unavoidable negative environmental impacts elsewhere or in the future. Third, it is intrinsically impossible to design industrial processes that have no negative environmental impacts. This follows not only from the entropy law but also from the fact that any generation of energy is impossible without negative environmental consequences. It can therefore be concluded that science and technology have only very limited potential in solving current and future environmental problems. Consequently, it will be necessary to address the root cause of environmental deterioration, namely, the prevailing materialistic values that are the main driving force for both overpopulation and overconsumption. The long-term protection of the environment is, therefore, not primarily a technical problem but rather a social and moral problem that can only be solved by drastically reducing the strong influence of materialistic values. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This article is a transcript of the Roundtable Discussion that opened "Industrial Ecology 2000: Maximizing Shareholder Value, Lessons from the Natural World,"a conference held at the Haas School of Business, October 5-8, 2000. This roundtable discussion offers an interesting and provocative introduction to the concept of industrial ecology and the paradigm shift that is taking place in corporate environmental management.The development of Industrial Ecology (IE) is based on the philosophy that the two systems, the industrial system and the ecosystem operate through different principles of system development and on the philosophy that IE can serve to reduce the conflict between the two systems as it learns from the model of an ecosystem. In an IE, following the roundput analogy of a natural ecosystem, the industrial actors co-operate by utilising each other's waste material and energy flows and try and reduce the system virgin material and energy input as well as the waste and emission output. In a successful IE, a business-environment win-win might be possible because the raw material and energy costs, waste management costs, costs resulting from environmental legislation, as well as the image costs of the companies in the system and of the system as a whole, can be reduced. In this paper, the IE analogy includes the four basic principles of system development of ecosystems; roundput, diversity, locality and gradua
l change. The principles are understood as a potential direction in which Regional. Industrial Ecosystem Management (RIEM) can be developed.This paper presents a conceptual link among green marketing, environmental justice, and industrial ecology. It argues for greater awareness of environmental justice in the practice of green marketing. In contrast with the type of costs commonly discussed in the literature, the paper identified another type of costs, termed "costs with positive results," that may be associated with the presence of environmental justice in green marketing. A research agenda is finally suggested to determine consumers' awareness of environmental justice, and their willingness to bear the costs associated with it.In order for society to secure a healthy environment and reach sustainability, there is a need for reconsideration of municipal environmental management (MEM). Among other things, the potential roles of a municipality in regionally oriented environmental management and development planning have to be further analysed. In this paper, MEM is confronted with the concept of industrial ecology (IE). In particular, the role of a municipality in developing regional industrial ecology, and, vice versa, the role of regional industrial ecology in developing MEM, will be reflected upon. It is argued that a municipality, serving as an institutional anchor tenant, may provide the regional IE effort with the needed institutional support. In return, regional IE seems to have the potential to provide a basis for increased co-operation between public and private actors of a region as well as integration of regional environmental and development issues. Copyright (C) 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.The impact of concerns about environmental degradation has prompted many initiatives to improve the environmental efficiency of businesses, such as environmental management systems and industrial ecology as well as recycling, waste reduction and energy reduction programmes. Hawken et al. (1999) argue that these kinds of change are part of processes so profound that humankind is actually participating in another industrial revolution, a revolution to Natural Capitalism. These three authors outline basic changes to the capitalist system that necessitate different mind-sets and sets of values that ultimately lead to profound differences in the ways in which businesses are managed. This paper considers the possibility that we are on the verge of an industrial revolution that will implement a new form of capitalism that will facilitate an easier transition to sustainable industrial development. This paper proceeds by first identifying key approaches to the management of the environment and then identifying six steps that will have to be taken if the putative revolution is to be realized. Copyright (C) 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.Sustainable development (SD) is premised on the inescapable and integral role played by humans in shaping and impacting the natural world and has been recognized as a foundational norm of international environmental law and policy. Ecologicalism-an outlook that embraces a comprehensive approach to interdependent natural and human systems-provides the conceptual underpinnings for a creative and integrated environmental management philosophy for implementing SD, This Article argues t
hat the daunting task of defining and applying such an integrated approach and philosophy to the multiple interacting changes affecting planetary life support systems can benefit from the U.S. experience in addressing the need for integrated pollution control (IPC). It also contends that the relatively new discipline of Industrial Ecology (IE) that pairs industry with ecology offers a promising new system paradigm for analyzing human activity within the biophysical environment, By entwining humans and their needs with ecosystems, IE does in fact aspire to become the "science of sustainability."In 1999, the Surface Mount Council [1] identified the issue of lead-free electronics as an emerging area for concern and evaluation. This was triggered by the initial European Union's (EU) proposal for a Directive on Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)[2] and by the Japanese focus on environmental marketing and on recycling, which has resulted in timetables for lead elimination [3], The present EU directive on the elimination of lead from electronics by 2008 [4] has added further urgency to this issue. From an industrial ecology perspective, it is essential to evaluate the environmental impact of the proposed alternatives and to compare this with that of the present Sn/Pb solder. Industrial ecology is the multidisciplinary study of industrial systems and economic activities, and their links to fundamental natural systems [5], Based on this definition, it is important to study the environmental impact of lead-free electronics through their entire life cycle. Factors such as alloy availability, processing considerations, energy use and potential ground water contamination must be considered. Based on these criteria, lead-free products are not more environmentally friendly than the present electronics soldered with Sn/Pb, Thus, the focus of future regulation should be on recovery and recycling of the metals at end-of-life as required in the WEEE rather than the elimination of lead-based solder.The natural environment and the manufacturing function are becoming inextricably linked. As the new millennium approaches and progresses, profitability, Productivity and environmental consciousness are increasingly viewed as integral goals of manufacturing organizations. The issues facing manufacturing organizations in general, and the manufacturing Junction in particular are discussed in this paper. Some of the current practices and future requirements for an environmentally sustainable manufacturing enterprise are included in this discussion. Even though the focus is on manufacturing strategy and operations, issues relevant to the overall organization and other functions are also included In the final analysis, this field and topic is relatively novel to most organizations, ample room exists for both Practitioners and researchers for making progress in the next millennium.Industrial Ecology is a new field of environment. It bases on the Industrial Sustainability. Firstly, we discuss the Industrial Situation in Vietnam because our Industrial Sustainability isn't good and may be untied. We assess sonic kinds of industries, what they release and their effects to our environment. Then, we show the policies of government for protecting damaged environment. After an extensive discussion of the concept of Industrial Ecology in Vietnam, the report wil
l describe and illustrate the results of a field study about Vietnamese companies experiencing with Environmental Management Systems, Life Cycle Assessment, Eco-Labeling and so on. Vietnamese companies wonder if they join into these standards what they will catch inter-organization co-operation in the field of environment or if there are cognitive or organizational barriers that hinder the development of Industrial Ecology in general. We also discuss the policies of our decided government and lay out some solutions to improve environmental situation in Vietnam greener and greener. We also lay out some solution to improve our environmental situation and how government control and treat environment-law-broken companies. If they don't obey the law, authorities will take them to "black book", at that time their companies may be closed or buyers won't purchase their products. In the other hand, they will be come to ''green book". We think that if this principle is put into application in all over the world, our environment will be better.Industrial ecology was born about a decade ago. Since then it has grown as a field of inquiry and has produced a community of practice in several sectors including academia, business, and government. This paper takes a critical view of the developments so far and asks to what extent industrial ecology has taken on the attributes of more conventional academic fields. And, in a related analysis, I look at the progress industrial ecology has made in establishing itself as a cultural basis for action in the above sectors. Ideas like industrial ecology must become institutionalized if they are to have much effect on the reality of everyday activities. My personal assessment is positive in both aspects of this analysis.Material Flow Accounting (MFA) has been developed and applied to systematically describe the flow of materials including resources, products, wastes, and other emissions. Overview of MFA methodology and empirical results from an international joint study of MFA at the nation-wide scale are presented. From nation-wide scale to company or process level, MFA can play an important and useful role for benchmarking and improvement of resource productivity and environmental efficiency. At any scales, further integration of MFA with monetary/cost accounting will provide us with better insights. Meso-scale study with economic input-output analysis of inter-industrial material flow is one of the promising approaches to link micro level studies and macro level studies. MFA for specific local/regional areas will be another interesting target of study from the perspective of the industrial ecology.This paper proposed the idea of 'ecological material use'. The idea is defined as the material use where waste production and environmental impacts are reduced than existing material use within the scope of lifecycle of products. The paper discusses possible ecological material use of off-site building elements. It exemplify case study on, prefabricated three-dimensional package of bathroom (bath-unit). Based on the interview, the paper analyzes the material use from the perspective of whole lifecycle stages of the bath-unit. It tries to discuss the material inputs and waste outputs from manufacturing stage to dismantling stage of the bath-unit product lifecycle, then list up the factors of unrealized ecological material
 use of bath-unit lifecycle. Among these factors, the paper focuses on product design related issues, and on interdependencies of including suppliers of elements of bathroom unit. The paper lists up the countermeasures to these factors. Then the paper proposes a possible idea model of ecological material use model relating to bathroom unit production and disposal by coordinating and integrating the set of strategies to these factors. In concluding comments, the paper summarize the knowledge from discusses on to what extent the knowledge is applicable to other kind of off site building productsThis brief note proposes the alternative index of performance over time termed as Life Cycle Value (LCV) index that integrate qualitative performance with LCA and LCC. The note presents the case study to verify the applicability of LCV index to housing. Qualitative aspects to assess LCV index in housing are listed up. The aspects are related to adaptable performance of housing to ever changing requirements. The idea of hierarchical structures emerges to simplify interfaces of various facets of modules. It is identified here that subdivision of products and process into autonomous hierarchical modules could realize better LCV index by promoting dematerialization in the business of continual customization of housing over time. The case study suggests that introduction of LCV index could promote industrial ecology in housing. Life-cycle analysis of a charging station for electric vehicles (EVs) was performed in the three phases, that is, production, transportation and installation of the charging equipment, which consists of charger, battery and stand. We chose parking lots on expressways, commercial parking lots in cities, municipal facilities, shopping centers, etc. throughout the country as the charging sites according to the EV charge program in Southern California. Air-pollutant emissions during the transportation phase were calculated based on the emission factors of vehicles, running speed and the transport distance between one factory of the charging equipment and each site. The share of transporting the charging machines in total emissions of CO2, SOx and CO was less than 15% and the production phase was dominant. In case of NOx, the share of transporting them was over 20%. The relation between gasoline vehicle and gas station was applied to estimate the number of EVs using the charging stations through the country, and the contribution of the charging stations to life-cycle emissions of air pollutants from EV was presented. The share of infrastructure in total emissions of CO2 was 16% in our model case. Thus the development of the charging infrastructure almost did not change the advantage of EV compared to gasoline vehicle (GV) in terms of CO2, NOx, and CO emissions. But an EV emits more life-cycle SOx than gasoline vehicles (GVs). (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper considers the role of Life-Cycle Costing (LCC), Time-Based Competition (TBC), and other relevant goals at the three planning-horizon levels of strategic, intermediate, and tactical with respect to time and cost of products to market in a concurrent engineering environment. A conceptual framework has been developed in which the general areas of LCC and TBC are delineated. Based on the conceptual framework, the specific components of LCC and TBC at each le
vel of planning are developed and presented. Subsequently, a Preemptive Goal Programming (PGP) model is developed. This model uses the components of LCC, TBC, and other relevant goals as the decision variables. Then, a case study of a company that has developed LCC and TBC is considered. The PGP model is then applied to the company's operations by using the actual data obtained from the company in order to capture the essence of the conceptual framework. This example explains and validates the PGP model in practice and provides managerial implications of the solution. Finally, a set of conclusions and an assessment of the results are presented.If sustainability in the construction industry is to move beyond rhetoric, civil engineering and other construction designers need some new tools - such as life-cycle assessment software. John Dowling of Corus explains.The environmental impacts associated with the manufacturing of different automotive paint materials including solvent-based and powder primers, water-based basecoat, and solvent-based and powder clearcoats were investigated based on life cycle analysis (LCA). The LCA of each paint formulation included the environmental emissions associated with mining and production of the raw materials, production of energy required to mine and produce raw materials and final product, mining of fossil fuels required to produce energy to run the mining and manufacturing processes, and transportation of raw materials to manufacturing plant. We have studied the environmental performance of three different paint scenarios: (a) solventborne primer-waterborne basecoat-solventborne clearcoat; (b) powder primer-waterborne basecoat-solventborne clearcoat; (c) powder primer-waterborne basecoat-powder clearcoat. Results show that the LCA energy requirement to manufacture the polyester powder primer, in a quantity necessary to paint a sport utility vehicle, is lower by 67% compared to that found for the acrylic powder. For waterborne basecoat, the two colors white and pewter use about the same amount of energy. In manufacturing of the materials for the three painting scenarios considered, the powder primer-waterborne basecoat-powder clear is associated with the least energy, water consumption, solid waste, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). However, it exceeds other scenarios in particulate matter (PM), SOx, and CO2-equivalent emissions. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This article aims to determine the environmental performance of China reed fibre used as a substitute for glass fibre as reinforcement in plastics and to identify key environmental parameters. A life cycle assessment (LCA) is performed on these two materials for an application to plastic transport pallets. Transport pallets reinforced with China reed fibre prove to be ecologically advantageous if they have a minimal lifetime of 3 years compared with the 5-year lifetime of the conventional pallet. The energy consumption and other environmental impacts are strongly reduced by the use of raw renewable fibres, due to three important factors: (a) the substitution of glass fibre production by the natural fibre production; (b) the indirect reduction in the use of polypropylene linked to the higher proportion of China reed fibre used and (c) the reduced pallet weight, which reduces fuel consumption during transport. Considering the 
whole life cycle, the polypropylene production process and the transport cause the strongest environmental impacts during the use phase of the life cycle. Since thermoplastic composites are hardly biodegradable, incineration has to be preferred to discharge on landfills at the end of its useful life cycle. The potential advantages of the renewable fibres will be effective only if a purer fibre extraction is obtained to ensure an optimal material stiffness, a topic for further research. China reed biofibres are finally compared with other usages of biomass, biomaterials, in general, can enable a three to ten times more efficient valorisation of biomass than mere heat production or biofuels for transport. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The need for integrated chemical processes that take economic and environmental issues into account simultaneously has increased considerably. In this paper a systematic method is described to generate and screen process alternatives and to identify promising technologies in early development stages. The method is based on a computerized generation of alternative ways to produce a given chemical and can identify feasible process alternatives depending on emission limits or other user input. It is proposed to evaluate the corresponding mass balances using the total annualized profit per service unit (TAPPS) and the material intensity per service unit (MIPS) as economic and environmental indicators, respectively. The method was applied to an industrial case study for the production of hydrogen cyanide. For our problem framing it could be shown that Blausaure-Methan-Ammoniak processes are more promising than Andrussow processes according to these indicators. The most important design parameters are the type of reactor and the use of the byproducts hydrogen and ammonium salts.A possible refinery process with higher output of gas oil and more hydrogen consumption than in conventional refinery processes was proposed. The CO, emissions form the proposed processes with (case B) and without (base case, A) outer source of hydrogen were evaluated. The possibility of combining the refinement and transportation of petroleum with hydrogen produced from renewable energy resources such as hydropower and solar cells (photovoltaic, PV) was discussed by life cycle assessment (LCA), where hydrogen is supplied to the refinery process installed overseas and the lighten and desulfurized products are transported to Japan (case Q. The result was compared with the case when liquefied hydrogen is transported to Japan and supplied to a refinery installed in Japan (case B). CO2 emissions from the proposed refinery processes with (case B) and without (case A) outer source of hydrogen were calculated with 159 and 141 kg-CO2/kl-produced oil, respectively. In any case with outer hydrogen supply (cases B and Q, the total CO2 emission was less than that for case A, when the hydrogen is produced from hydroelectricity. On the other hand, when the hydrogen is produced from PV, total CO2 emissions for cases B and C were larger than that for case A. Finally, the characteristics of case C was identified and the conditions for the product import case (case Q can show the best one with the minimum CO2 emission were discussed. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The objective of this research is to develop a desirable
 type III environmental declaration format for the industrial consumer. A total of five different scenarios were chosen for the presentation of life-cycle assessment results in a format that meets the requirements of a type III environmental declaration. Life-cycle assessment of an electronic component was performed for this purpose. Environmentally significant impact categories and input/output items of a product system derived from the life-cycle assessment are presented in this format. Presenting these Information concisely in a standardized format would accelerate the communication of environmental aspects of materials and components in a product supply chain. Thus the type III environmental declaration can be a useful instrument for the manufacturing of an ecoproduct.Chemical screening in the United States is often conducted using scoring and ranking methodologies. Linked models accounting for chemical fate, exposure, and toxicological effects are generally preferred in Europe and in product Life Cycle Assessment. For the first time, a comparison is presented in this article of two of the prominent, but structurally different methodologies adopted to help screen and rank chemicals and chemical emissions data. Results for 250 chemicals are presented, with a focus on 12 chemicals of interest in the United Nations Environment Programme's, Persistent Organic Pollutants global treaty negotiations. These results help to illustrate the significance of described structural differences and to assess the correlation between the methodologies. The scope of the comparison was restricted here to human health, although the insights would be equally useful in the context of the health of ecosystems. Illustrating the current types of chemical screening and emissions comparison approaches, the relative significance of the scenario and structural differences of the Waste Minimization Prioritization Tool (WMPT) and the Toxic Equivalency Potential (TEP) methodologies are analyzed. The WMPT facilitates comparison in terms of key physical-chemical properties. Measures for Persistence, Bioaccumulation, and Toxicity (PBT) are calculated. Each PBT measure is scored and then these scores are added to provide a single measure of relative concern. TEPs account for chemical fate, multipathway exposure, and toxicity using a model-based approach. This model structure is sometimes considered to provide a less subjective representation of environmental mechanisms, and, hence, an improved basis for screening. Nevertheless, a strong :relationship exists between the two approaches and both have their limitations.Over recent years, European cities have been questioning their traditional pre-sorting and waste collection practices and looking for new schemes to improve environmental problems generated by waste disposal. This paper presents an integral methodology for four pre-sorting practices that are beginning to be implemented in Spanish cities. A great effort has been made to compile information to be able to estimate a large number of valuation indexes. Based on this information, the methodology is supported by the forecasting of waste generation, the use of GIS techniques, the definition of objectives and their evaluation taking into account legal, social, performance, environmental and economic issues. Special attention is given to environmental impact, for which l
ife cycle assessment methodology is used.Increased CO2 in the atmosphere is such a serious problem for mankind that many research and development approaches are implemented to reduce CO2 emissions. One is a biological CO2 fixation using the photosynthetic function of microalgae like Chlorella and Synechocystis sp, The target of the project is to achieve a CO2 fixation rate of 50 g CO2/m(2).d, which is 10 times as large as that of the temperate forest. The purpose of this study is to clarify the possibilities of the biological CO2 fixation system in view of the CO, balance, energy balance, and payback period. The amount Of CO2 fixation of the system should be larger than the emission of CO2 by operating. Furthermore, the energy consumption of the system should also be less than the biochemical energy (enthalpy) of glucose, which is made by photosynthesis. After CO2 fixation was completed by the microalgae, the biomass must be utilized practically for many markets and the initial investment in the system construction could be regained. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The Leontief input-output model has been applied for macro environmental analysis since 1970, and life cycle analysis has been used in industrial design over the last decade. This paper presents two extended environmental input-output models for life cycle analysis in pollutant abatement and towards resource recycling. It is demonstrated that the suggested models are systematic tools that can be used for integrated environmental analysis and planning.Human and ecotoxicity impact categories are problematic to quantify within life-cycle impact assessment (LCIA) because their local scope makes them difficult to aggregate with the traditional global-impact categories used in life-cycle assessment (LCA). For being able to assess local impacts such as toxicity, LCIA developers increasingly include fate modeling into LCA. This article follows this development by comparing different LCIA methods for aquatic ecotoxicology and by investigating the importance of fate within LCIA, the necessity of considering freshwater and seawater compartments separately, and the key degradation and intermedia transfer processes involved. The methods are compared by assessing an example study of domestic clothes washing in former West Germany. Four LCIA methods are selected and applied to four substances emitted during the washing process. The conclusion is that the consideration of environmental fate does matter and that aquatic ecotoxic impacts can differ significantly for the same substance in freshwater and in marine ecosystems. The way (bio) degradation, photolysis, volatilization, and transfer from agricultural soils are considered plays an important role as do the system boundaries chosen. This means that the LCIA methodology should remain flexible so that appropriate methods can be chosen for different applications. Fate models being developed in the environmental risk assessment of chemicals can contribute to the further improvement of LCIA methods.Superior environmental performance has not traditionally been a goal of managers of power generating facilities, but there is now considerable pressure to go "beyond compliance," even for facilities that have been in existence for decades. In this regard, significant environmental improvement can be achieved by taking a life-cycle p
erspective. We have conducted a streamlined life-cycle assessment on an existing gas/oil-fired generating facility. With the results of this assessment as a basis, we propose a number of generic steps that can be taken to improve the environmental performance of most existing power generating facilities.Based on the data of SO2 emission, urban air quality, and acid precipitation, the status and characteristics of acid rain and SO2 pollution in China were analyzed. To prevent the further deterioration of acid rain and SO, pollution effectively, the Acid Rain Control Zones and SO2 Pollution Control Zones (Two Control Zones called for short) were designated. The range of Two Control Zones was 1.09 x 10(6) km(2), 11.4% of the whole territory of China, with SO2 emissions of 14 million tons in 1995. The Acid Rain Control Zone involves 14 provinces, autonomous regions or municipalities, with total area of 0.806 x 10(6) km(2). The SO2 Pollution Control Zone includes 63 cities with total area of 0.29 x 10(6) km(2). The control policies to be implemented in the Two Control Zones were formulated by the method of life cycle analysis on sulfur-in-coal. The impacts of the policy implementation on energy industry, including coal industry and power industry, were calculated and analyzed. It was proved that the policy implementation would improve the thermal power mix and promote the sustainable development of energy industry. The paper also analyzed the decrease of SO2 emission and the improvement of air quality in the cities in recent years, which were achieved by the control efforts.Methodologies based on Life Cycle Assessment (L.C.A.) give the opportunity to realise a global and complete evaluation of the environmental effects of products from their production to their use and elimination (from craddle to grave); methods used for analysis are internationally wellknown and standardised. These methods are rarely used in construction materials area, although materials flows and energy consumption are important and constructions have a long way of life. A calculation methodology, based on ecofactors/ecopoints, has been used-for the analysis of industrial hall made of concrete, steel, or concrete/wood structure; materials but also construction process are compared at the point of view of their environmental impact. This analysis completes the technical and economical approaches for the construction owner and designer and gives a global view of the interaction between construction and civil engineering, and environment.Most companies have embraced the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care(R) program, including Product Stewardship, and are integrating ISO 14001 and other environmental management systems. The Rohm and Haas Company uses environmental improvement objectives that not only focus on compliance with existing regulations and industry trends, but for developing business unit-driven objectives to reduce our environmental footprints for processes and systems. To attain the next level of strategic environmental management, integration of sustainable concepts and activities into a general management framework, new product development and corporate decision-making processes must occur. Businesses need to internalize that operating sustainably creates long-term value, achieves a greater competitive edge, and is not solely a short-term cost-redu
ction activity. They must recognize and foster implementation of technological advances in green chemistry, life-cycle analysis, risk assessment, and engineering consistent with specific business goals. Development of sustainability improvement objectives for each business unit assists in meeting our global sustainability goals. The process, measures and metrics, challenges, and results for integrating sustainability into the culture at Rohm and Haas will be described during this presentation.The public has growing concerns about the effects of human activity on the environment for both themselves and future generations. The concept being developed to address these environmental concerns, along with economic and social-equity considerations, is called "sustainable development". The business community has already started to address their contribution to environmental issues through collaborative efforts under organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. That work has focused primarily on industrial and corporate environmental and economic performance through the development of eco-efficiency metrics, which are a measure of resources and materials consumed per unit output of product, sales, or value-added. While this development is important, it is not enough. Clearly, the environmental performance of the entire product system must also be elucidated. Otherwise, one might forget, for example, the power plant emissions of his or her so-called "zero-emission" vehicle. The metrics required to characterize sustainable practices and systems have yet to be developed. The set will include economic, environmental. and social-equity metrics. Because of their system-oriented environmental performance representation, life-cycle assessment metrics are certainly going to be included in such a set. A discussion of some potential life-cycle metrics follows.Toxicity potentials are scaling factors used in life cycle assessment (LCA) indicating their relative importance in terms of potential toxic impacts. This paper presents the results of an uncertainty assessment of toxicity potentials for 181 substances that were calculated with the global nested multi-media fate, exposure and effects model USES-LCA. The variance in toxicity potentials resulting from choices in the modelling procedure was quantified by means of scenario analysis. A first scenario analysis showed to what extent potential impacts in the relatively short term are obscured by the inclusion of impacts on the very long term. Toxicity potentials representing potential impacts over time horizons of 20, 100 and 500 years were compared with toxicity potentials representing potential impacts over an infinite time horizon. Time horizon dependent differences up to 6.5 orders of magnitude were found for metal toxicity potentials, while for toxicity potentials of organic substances under study, differences remain within 0.5 orders of magnitude. The second scenario analysis addressed to what extent potential impacts on the continental scale are obscured by the inclusion of impacts on the global scale. Exclusion of potential impacts on the global scale changed the toxicity potentials of metals and volatile persistent halogenated organics up to 2.3 orders of magnitude. These scenario analyses also provide the basis for determining exports to future generations and outside 
the emission area. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Chemical and allied industries have shown interest in reducing pollution by implementing cleaner technologies or processes that use, or generate, lower amounts of or less harmful pollutants. However, abatement processes are still required at many plants to reduce the discharge of pollutants at the end-of-the-pipe. It has been observed many times that efforts made to optimise the abatement process reduce the quality and/or quantity of waste discharge at the end-of-the-pipe, but increase the total environmental burden and impact. Therefore. it is very important to consider the environmental burden and adverse impacts caused due to any change or modification in the process and allied facilities for the complete system (up- and downstream of the process). Moreover, these measures have generally been taken only after fully fledged design of the process or at the operating stage, thus making the preventive/abatement measure a costly affair. Therefore, there is great need for a design process (applicable to the early design and decision-making stages) that not only considers economy and technology as the basic input for the design, but also considers environmental soundness as one of the important parameters. This paper proposes a systematic methodology for process design that considers the assessment and minimisation of the environmental impacts of the complete process system (including upstream processes), It incorporates life cycle analysis (LCA) principles within a formal design process and optimisation framework. This proposed process design methodology with minimum environmental impact extends to a complete description of the environmental impact of the process and its associated activities. It has good real-life application potential, as it includes environmental objectives together with technology and economics at the design stage so as to determine a cost-efficient solution. Further, by employing process modelling and optimisation techniques. it yields optimal design/operating conditions with minimum environmental impact. The applicability of the proposed methodology has been demonstrated through a real case study. The most interesting observation made in the case study is that the total cost of the optimised operation is minimum when the process is designed and optimised considering the global boundary (the "cradle to the grave" approach) in contrast to the conventional boundary (process boundary). (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The "Establishment of a Sustainable Society Based on Material Recycle" can be regarded as an issue urging a fundamental change in the values and social systems of the modern society and a challenge demanding a reform of the industrial structure from the conventional systems of individual optimization. This paper reports our views on LCA (Life Cycles Assessment) issues and on material selection, taking LCA of automobiles as an example, and challenges of Japanese steel industry on them. The LCA study on automobiles makes us aware of the significance of not only data itself but also the development of Life Cycle Aspect which tries to evaluate Life Cycle Cost and Function, etc.Ore-TMRs, which are the total amount of overburden and rock to obtain metal ore, were estimated as a fundamental data to estimate the value of TMR (Tota
l Materials Requirement) of metals. Ore-TMR of coal, iron, copper, zinc and tin are estimated 12.5, 5.1, 304, 34 and 95 representatively by statistic method based on hearing and investigation of practical mining sites. An approximation from the quality of crude ore and further approximation from the concentration of the metal in the crust were also proposed as and (ore-TMR) = 2.0/{100 x (quality of crude ore %)} (ore-TMR) = 2.0 x (concentration in the crust [ppm])(-2/3)).CO2, SOx, NOx emissions form non ferrous metal processing were estimated by using economical statistical yearbook of the year 1999. The subjected processes were ore-mining, Cu-smelting, Cu-electrolysis, Pb-smelting, Pb-electrolysis, Zn-electrolysis, distilled Zn, secondary Al, Al sheet rolling, wrought Cu, electric wire production, and optical fiber production. These inventory data were compared with the data of 1989. The "Cradle to Gate" emissions were also calculated. The greater part of emissions were put on the foreign countries.The reduction effects Of CO2 emission from typical steel products by the reduction agent injection into blast furnace were analyzed by Life Cycle Assessment methodology, using the statistical data. As the results, the reduction effects by pulverized coal injection and waste plastic injection were estimated to be 0.07 kg and 0.16 kg-CO2 at the point of 0.1 kg/kg-HM of injection, respectively. As the coke is replaced with pulverized coal on the equivalent in carbon content, the CO2 emission from the coke manufacturing is reduced. And the reduction effect Of CO2 emission by waste plastic injection is higher than that by pulverized coal injection, because the replacement ratio of coke with waste plastics is higher. The injection ratio of waste plastics would not be raised to the same ratio as the pulverized coal in the viewpoint of the material balance of waste plastics.LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) has been conducted on residential gas appliances designed based on the eco-design guide that city gas suppliers planned, for certifying validity and clarifying problems of it. In other words, life cycle inventories of these gas appliances were generated, and Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) was carried out. Five environmental impact categories were considered: "Resources Consumption", "Global Warming", "Acidification", "Energy Consumption", and "Solid Waste". The following results were obtained. Components of residential gas appliances are mostly iron and nonferrous metals. The residential gas appliances designed to be light give lower environmental loads at the production stage than general gas appliances, but occasionally the environmental loads are increased. This suggests there is the trade-off relation between the designing for lightness and the environmental loads depending on the material. It is necessary to develop the optimizing techniques to minimize environment loads when the material is selected. It is necessary to develop a new LCA methodology by which the change of the inventory as time passes is considered with the product that has large environmental loads at the using stage.The 1994 EU Packaging Directive placed obligations on various parties in the 'packaging chain' and was the first example in Europe of 'producer responsibility'. The responsibility, however, ceases at the point of selling the (packaged) product and it seems unlikely
 that the UK will meet mandatory recovery and recycling targets by 2001. Other waste stream directives are also directed at 'end-of-pipe' policies. To involve consumers will probably entail placing a responsibility on them in terms of the 'product'. This may include aspects of education and publicity, more take-back schemes and proposals to incentivise households to reduce and recycle their waste. Direct charging for household waste collection seems to have gone out of favour, but other methods are currently being researched. A third aspect of responsibility is often referred to as 'extended producer responsibility' and this includes the choice of resources and the design of products. In packaging, this is covered by the Essential Requirements legislation, although detailed guidelines on design for reuse/recycling/composting/energy recovery have yet to be finalised. The ultimate aim is to promote 'integrated product policies', where all products are designed in the context of 'cradle to grave' evaluation of economic and environmental costs and benefits, using such tools as Life Cycle Analysis and Value Chain Analysis. It is still unclear how policy options for producers and/or consumers are to be measured. Percentage targets have been set for the packaging chain, and the UK now has statutory Best Value Performance Indicators for household waste. None of the measures to date adequately measure waste prevention or reduction. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.In order to test the potential of chironomid deformities for biomonitoring, induction of morphological deformities in Chironomus riparius larvae was assessed after chronic exposure (static with renewal) of eggs and subsequent instars to sublethal nominal cadmium concentrations of 0, 3 (NOEC), 9 (intermediate) and 27 (chronic (LC50)) mug Cd l(-1) during 7 to 10 generations. Deformities which could be associated with an indirect or direct cadmium effect were split medial mentum teeth (more frequent in 9 and 27 mug Cd l(-1)) and premandible deformities (especially in 3 mug Cd l(-1)). The control contained more larvae with additional teeth in mentum and mandible than the metal-exposed conditions. In the 9 mug Cd l(-1) condition the frequencies of larvae with split medial mentum teeth increased in the last four generations, to reach 40%. The unpredictability of fluctuations of deformity frequencies over the generations was associated with parental effects and experimental manipulation. The deformity percentages correlated positively with the mortalities and could be related to the induction of tolerance to cadmium, as was concluded on the basis of life cycle analysis in a previous paper. This experiment demonstrated a concentration-response relationship between deformities and sublethal levels of cadmium. However, the observed generation fluctuations caution for (1) the use of single-generation experiments for defining ecotoxicological threshold values, and (2) experimentally induced genetical drift in multi-generation experiments.Although many life cycle assessment (LCA) software tools are available, most tools can either address the needs of a specific produce or a general industry range, but not both. This calls for the development of an easy-to-use and interactive Pre-LCA tool that would allow users to customise and improve flexibility and efficiency. The analytic hierar
chy process (AHP) method uses established procedures to capture the best rank from judgements, through the weighting and synthesising of the decision process, into a hierarchy which is compatible with a network synthesised with various dependencies. It compares alternatives, one at a time, in the context of priorities. For this research, the AI IP method is used to derive a single environmental score based on process emissions for each of the products or alternatives evaluated. Based on these environmental scores, these products can be ranked with respect to their environmental merits. The AHP method is incorporated into the Pre-LCA tool to assign accurate environmental scores to products. This paper discusses this AHP model in the Pre-LCA system developed. The developed AHP model has been applied to a case study, which is a comparative study on polystyrene and porcelain plates. The results show that the developed system is able to provide sound evaluation. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This study focuses on the sustainability of different technological options for the treatment of waste gases from a waste water treatment plant loaded with volatile organic compounds. The options considered an biofiltration, active carbon adsorption and catalytic and thermal oxidation. The amount of resources and utilities to construct and operate each system have been investigated from the point of view of the Second Law of thermodynamics. The unit in which all resources are treated is Joules of exergy. It was concluded that biofiltration was the most exergetically efficient system. The cumulative exergy consumption of the resources and utilities for construction and operation have been quantified in exergy terms. Further on, the requirements for the abatement of emissions generated by operating the waste gas treatment systems and the amount of renewables have been taken into account in the assessment of the sustainability of the waste gas treatment technologies. Finally, a comparison between exergy analysis and life cycle analysis in assessing the sustainability of the waste gas treatment options, is presented. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Representatives of world governments and the policy research community often promote expansion of exports from developing countries as a means of growing national economies of these countries and raising living standards. This type of export growth over the long term will have important implications for the international freight transportation system and for its overall level of ecological impact; however, up to the present there is little research on this issue. This paper gives a preliminary analysis of the possibility for future growth over the next several decades, in two parts. First, an estimate of the range of potential growth in total export tonne-km and associated energy use is given. Second, production and export of apparel from developing countries is modeled to illustrate the effect of growth in international freight from the perspective of product life-cycle analysis. At the upper end of the estimated growth range, substantial increases in energy use and carbon emissions will merit specific policies to counteract the full participation of industrializing countries in the world trading system, and these are discussed. The paper also identifies areas where data gath
ering should be improved. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Matrix population models have become popular tools in research areas as diverse as population dynamics, life history theory, wildlife management, and conservation biology. Two classes of matrix models are commonly used for demographic analysis of age-structured populations: age-structured (Leslie) matrix models, which require age-specific demographic data, and partial life cycle models, which can be parameterized with partial demographic data. Partial life cycle models are easier to parameterize because data needed to estimate parameters for these models are collected much more easily than those needed to estimate age-specific demographic parameters. Partial life cycle models also allow evaluation of the sensitivity of population growth rate to changes in ages at first and last reproduction, which cannot be done with age-structured models. Timing of censuses relative to the birth-pulse is an important consideration in discrete-time population models but most existing partial life cycle models do not address this issue, nor do they allow fractional values of variables such as ages at first and last reproduction. Here, we fully develop a partial life cycle model appropriate for situations in which demographic data are collected immediately before the birth-pulse (pre-breeding census). Our pre-breeding census partial life cycle model can be fully parameterized with five variables (agc at maturity, age at last reproduction. juvenile survival rate. adult survival rate, and fertility), and it has some important applications even when age-specific demographic data are available (e.g., perturbation analysis involving ages at first and last reproduction). Wr have extended the model to allow non-integer values of ages at first and last reproduction, derived formulae for sensitivity analyses, and presented methods for estimating parameters for our pre-breeding census partial life cycle model. We applied the age-structured Leslie matrix model and our pre-breeding census partial life cycle model to demographic data for several species of mammals. Our results suggest that dynamical properties of the age-structured model are generally retained in our partial life cycle model, and that our pre-breeding census partial life cycle model is an excellent proxy for the age-structured Leslie matrix model.Life cycle assessment (LCA) offers a systematic approach in identifying the potential in reducing the environmental burden throughout the product life cycle. Generally, it;deals with the steady-state aspect of material and/or energy balances under the recycle structure. In this work, the dynamic behavior of the product life cycles is studied. First, the well-known block digram analysis is incorporated in the LCA, and the implications of recycling to process. dynamics are explored. The result indicates that, as a result of the positive feedback from material recycling; the overall production dynamics. becomes much slower. This implies a lack of flexibility as more and more recycled materials are utilized in product manufacturing, and this cannot be foreseen without incorporation of dynamics in the life cycles. To meet the market demand, increased inventories for the raw and recycled materials are needed to compensate the slow recycle dynamics and a larger turndown ratio is necessary for
 the raw material processing plants. The missing inventory, due to slow dynamics, can be expressed analytically in terms of the recycle ratio and the recycle time constant. It can be used for legislating new recycle policies which can alleviate the increased inventory and large-turndown ratio problems for the future processing plants. The results indicate that the dynamic analysis provides a better assessment of product Life cycles and, moreover, only the recycle ratio and recycle time constant are needed to Complete the analysis.The relationship between the body residue of 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (HCBP) and its effects, including 10-d mortality and chronic sublethal effects on the midge, Chironomus riparius, are examined in a partial life cycle assessment. The alga, Chlorella vulgaris, was loaded with C-14-labeled HCBP and fed to midges as the method for delivery of the toxicant. In a 10-d bioassay, median lethal body residue (LR50) was 0.57 (95% CI: 0.49-0.66) mmol/kg. In the partial life cycle test, midges were fed a mixture of C-12- and C-14-HCBP-laden algae and exposed in four separate tests to assess the different developmental stages representing 2nd to 3rd instar, 2nd to 4th, 2nd to pupa, and 2nd to adult stages. A variety of sublethal endpoints were monitored, including developmental time within a stadium, body concentration at the end of each stadium, body weight, and fecundity (the number of ova) for the female pupae and adults. Overall, midge body concentrations of HCBP increased with increasing exposure concentration. Body weight was not significantly affected by HCBP except during the 4th instar. Body residue also increased with each successive stadium. Developmental time increased significantly with increasing body concentration in 2nd to 4th, 2nd to pupa, and 2nd to adult tests, while there was no statistical significance in developmental time for the 2nd to 3rd instar test. The number of ova decreased significantly in adults with increasing body concentration of HCBP, with an average of 345 ova in controls, 289 ova at 0.028 mmol/kg of HCBP, and 258 ova at 0.250 mmol/kg. These data, which, relate chronic endpoints to body residues, suggest that sublethal endpoints in invertebrates are useful for defining sublethal hazards of PCBs. These data also suggest that ecological consequences may result from relatively low body burdens of PCBs. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.A life cycle simulation tool has been developed and linked with thermal simulation. Inventories given in the Oekoinventare database or collected in the European REGENER project are considered to evaluate the environmental impacts of material fabrication and other processes (energy, transport, etc.). An application of this tool is presented here concerning the comparison of three houses: the present construction standard in France (reference), a solar and a wooden frame house. The results of this exercise are presented and its limits are discussed. It seems still difficult to apply life cycle assessment (LCA) to the selection of materials and components. Rather, LCA can be used for the improvement of technical solutions (e.g. increasing the roof insulation in the solar house). (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The suitability of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology to analyse the environmental impact of agricu
ltural production is investigated. The first part of an LCA is an inventory of all the resources used and emissions released due to the system under investigation. In the following step, i.e. the Life Cycle Impact Assessment the inventory data were analysed and aggregated in order to finally get one index representing the total environmental burden. For the Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) the Eco-indicator 95 method has been chosen, because this is a well-documented and regularly applied impact assessment method. The resulting index is called Eco-indicator value. The higher the Eco-indicator value the stronger is the total environmental impact of an analysed system. A sugar beet field experiment conducted in northeastern Germany was chosen as an example for the analysis. In this experiment three different nitrogen fertilisers (calcium ammonium nitrate = CAN, urea ammonium nitrate solution = UAN, urea) were used at optimum N rates. The obtained Eco-indicator values were clearly different for the N fertilisers used in the sugar beet trial. The highest value was observed for the system where urea was used as N source. The lowest Eco-indicator value has been calculated for the CAN system. The differences are mainly due to different ammonia volatilisation after application of the N fertilisers. For all the systems the environmental effects of acidification and eutrophication contributed most to the total Eco-indicator value. The results show that the LCA methodology is basically suitable to assess the environmental impact associated with agricultural production. A comparative analysis of the system's contribution to global warming, acidification, eutrophication and summer smog is possible. However, some important environmental issues are missing in the Eco-indicator 95 method (e.g. the use of resources and land). (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.An important issue technology managers face today, and a vital component of any coherent technology strategy, concerns the decision to chose between developing technical capabilities internally or acquiring them through external means. While there is a clear indication in the literature of a greater reliance on external sources of technology, the factors driving this phenomenon and the potential benefit to firm performance have received limited empirical attention. This study addresses these issues by testing the relationships between several potential determinants of external technology sourcing, and the differential impacts of external vs. internal sourcing on firm performance. The study addresses three potential determinants of external technology sourcing: discontinuous technological change life cycle stage (the stage of the resulting life-cycle patterns developed around radical technological changes, or DTC-life cycle), intellectual property protection, and internally available resources. DTC-life cycles, and the industries built around them, are characterized by patterns of competitive behavior and a few key milestones, particularly the emergence of a dominant design. For example, the early stages of the life cycle are characterized by a focus on product technologies, as firms compete to develop the technical standard for the industry, while the Inter stages are more concerned with process technologies, as firms compete to produce the standard at the lowest cost. We argue th
at DTC-life-cycle analysis can inform the "internal vs. external" decision and that the evolution from a product-based competition to a cost-based competition will affect not only the focus of that external sourcing but also the benefits received as a result. Further, we suggest that perceived intellectual property protection and the level of resources available internally to the firm will also impact the decision to source technology externally. The growing interest in external technology acquisition would appear to reflect a positive effect on firm performance. The literature, however, is equivocal and often anecdotal, focusing only on a limited perspective of firm performance. We investigate the relationship between external technology acquisition (vs. internal technology development) and firm performance from three perspectives: product-, market-, and finance-based measures of performance. Further, given that the focus of external technology acquisition will be driven in part by life-cycle stage (earlier stages feats on product technology and Inter stages focus on process technology), we also study the effect that focus has on related firm performance measures; i.e., how will product-related external technology acquisition affect product-based performance measures and how will process-related external technology acquisition affect cost- (or finance) based measures. Finally, we investigate the impact of internal resource capability on the existing relationship between external technology acquisition and firm performance; i.e., the absorptive capacity argument. Data collected from 188 U.S. subsidiaries of both domestic (U.S.) and foreign firms were used to test hypothesized relationships among these variables: DTC-life cycles, intellectual property protection, internally available resources, external technology acquisition, and frim performance. While not all hypotheses were supported, the results on the relationship between external technology acquisition (vs. internal technology development) and the three firm performance perspectives warrant caution for technology managers considering or currently utilizing external sources of technology. The more salient results and implications for managers are presented below. First, regarding the potential drivers for external technology acquisition, the results varied with theoretical expectations. Contrary to theory, neither DTC-life cycle nor intellectual property protection exhibited a significant relationship to external sourcing, in general. However, consistent with expectations, the level of available internal resources did exhibit a direct and negative relationship to external acquisition. Firms with greater internal resources are less inclined to source externally. Second, technology managers would be well advised to consider a number of issues when approaching the decision to acquire technology externally or develop it internally. In all cases where a statistically significant relationship between external technology acquisition and firm performance was found, the direction was negative, indicating that acquiring technology externally detracts from firm performance. Further, in limited cases, that negative relationship is compounded in the presence of internal technology capabilities Also, a significant relationship was found between external product technology acquisition and product p
erformance measures (and not for financial performance measures), and between external process technology acquisition and finance performance measures (and not for product performance measures), as expected and were both negative. In other words, the dimension of performance most hindered by external technology acquisition is precisely that dimension that managers might strategically target at a given stage in the technology life cycle. The availability of technical resources internal to the firm was in all cases positively associated with product, market and financial performance measures. These results taken together suggest that firm performance is negatively impacted by external technology acquisition,firms with internally available resources typically do not tend to seek external technology, and when they do, in some cases the negative relationship between external sourcing and performance is increased. Clearly, external technology acquisition is nor a panacea and great care must be taken to ensure firm success-and our findings suggest that all else equal, firms may want to err on the sine of internal development. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Inc.Associated with sustainable technology, in this paper, we have developed a prototype system for evaluating life cycle engineering of chemical products. For this purpose, giving a whole framework on the G2 software known as a graphical development environment of intelligent system, we have built a product life cycle model as one of its element technologies. Practically it is described as an object oriented model having a hierarchical structure like IDEF0 model. Furthermore, due to the interdisciplinary nature of the problem-solving, highlighting an importance to facilitate a continuous improvement and to employ distributed information technologies, we also engage in developing a few related element technologies. Through a case study associated with the farm sheets, we have revealed that the developed system can analyze easily various kinds of life cycle scenarios just by giving certain values via a graphical user interface, and support strategic decision making on the life cycle engineering of chemical products.A Life Cycle Assessment, LCA, of a nanocrystalline dye sensitized solar cell (ncDSC) system has been performed, according to the ISO14040 standard. In brief, LCA is a tool to analyse the total environmental impact of a product or system from cradle to grave. Six different weighing methods were used to rank and select the significant environmental aspects to study further. The most significant environmental aspects according to the weighing methods are emission of sulphur dioxide and carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide emission was selected as the environmental indicator depending on the growing attention on the global warming effect. In an environmental comparison of electricity generation from a ncDSC system and a natural gas/combined cycle power plant, the gas power plant would result in 450 g CO2/kWh and the ncDSC system in between 19-47 g CO2/kWh. The latter can be compared with 42 g CO2/kWh, according to van Brummelen et al. "Life Cycle Assessment of Roof Integrated Solar Cell Systems, (Report: Department of Science, Technology and Society, Utrecht University, The Netherlands, 1994)" for another thin film solar eel system made of amorphous silicon. The most significant activity/component 
contributing to environmental impact over the Life cycle of the ncDSC system is the process energy for producing the solar cell module. Secondly comes the components; glass substrate, frame and junction box. The main improvement from an environmental point of view of the current technology would be an increase in the conversion efficiency from solar radiation to electricity generation and still use low energy demanding production technologies. Also the amount of material in the solar cell system should be minimised and designed to maximise recycling. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper discusses the environmental assessment approach that has been developed and applied in the SusHouse project (Strategies towards the Sustainable Household)l. This project aims at developing and evaluating strategies for a sustainable development of households in the future, for three basic household activities: nutrition, shelter and clothing. The environmental assessment approach in the SusHouse project is different from traditional approaches such as life cycle assessment, due to the system-level character and due to the focus on future developments. Examples are taken from the clothing research in the Netherlands. Copyright (C) 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.The literature on the application of life cycle assessment (LCA) to process industry products and particularly to chemical processes has been reviewed. The main purpose of an LCA is to provide a quantitative assessment of the environmental impact of products over their entire life cycle, with a view to making improvements. Application to processes, which are key parts of the life cycle, is important in the context of process design and development, and in the analysis of processing chains. Reference is made to some important techniques for environmental assessment which interface with LCA when evaluating processes. The essential features of the LCA methodology are reviewed and some specific difficulties in the application of LCA are identified and discussed. These difficulties include allocation of impacts to multiple products, the definition of system boundaries, the quality of data, temporal and spatial characteristics, and impact assessment methods. Consideration is given to the combined use of LCA with economic evaluations, which is important in the process industry context. Finally, some cases of the application of LCA to specific chemical processes are reviewed. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Matrix population models have become standard tools for the demographic analysis of age- or stage-structured populations. Although age-classified (Leslie) matrix models make maximum use of age-specific demographic data, age at first reproduction, which has been suggested to be an important life-history variable, does not appear as an explicit parameter in these models. Consequently, the sensitivity of population growth rate to changes in age at first reproduction cannot be calculated using standard techniques. Age-specific demographic data to parameterize age-structured models are difficult to collect, and models that can be parameterized with partial demographic data ("partial life-cycle models") have been developed. Partial life-cycle models are based on life-history stages, and these models can also be used to calculate sensitivity of populat
ion growth rate to changes in various life-history variables, including ages at first and last reproduction. Here, we present a partial life-cycle model appropriate for situations where demographic data are collected immediately after the birth pulse (post-breeding census). We present methods of parameterizing the partial life-cycle model, and derive formulas for calculating the sensitivity of the population growth rate to changes in model parameters, including ages at first and last reproduction. We analyzed life-table data for several species of mammals using the partial life-cycle model and found that results of our partial life-cycle model compare favorably with those obtained from the corresponding age-classified models.The human toxicity potential (HTP), a calculated index that reflects the potential harm of a unit of chemical released into the environment, is based on both the inherent toxicity of a compound and its potential dose. It is used to weight emissions inventoried as part of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) or in the toxics release inventory (TRI) and to aggregate emissions in terms of a reference compound. Total emissions can be evaluated in terms of benzene equivalence (carcino.-ens) and toluene equivalents (noncarcinogens). The potential dose is calculated using a generic fate and exposure model, CalTOX, which determines the distribution of a chemical in a model environment and accounts for a number of exposure routes, including inhalation, ingestion of produce, fish, and meat, and dermal contact with water and soil. Toxicity is represented by the cancer potency q1* for carcinogens and the safe dose (RfD, RfC) for noncarcinogens. This article presents cancer and noncancer HTP values for air and surface-water emissions of 330 compounds. This list covers 258 chemicals listed in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency TRI, or 79 weight% of the TRI releases to air reported in 1997.Taking the life cycle assessment (LCA) database being developed by the authors as an example, this paper discusses the main problems in the development of LCA databases and the ways to overcome these problems. The application of the object-oriented technique for the development of a LCA database is also discussed. A LCA database should contain two parts: one is the database of material properties; the other is the database of environmental impacts. The discussion in this paper is mainly focused on the database of the environmental impacts of materials. The database of environmental impacts consists of waste emissions caused in mining, extraction, manufacturing, use and recycling processes of materials. The database also contains a system to analyze the relationship between the environmental impacts and the processing technologies of the materials. The database is developed under Windows 98 and uses VISUAL BASIC 5.0 as the main tool. The application of the object-oriented program design technique can reduce the difficulty of database design and ensure a reasonable database structure. It can also reduce the complexity in data processing. In the last part of the paper, part-implementation of life cycle assessments for some polymers and metallic materials are shown. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.China has been developing its economy with a speed that it never experienced before and has achieved progress that attracts worldwide attentio
n. However, as its large population and the pressures from resources and environment are constraining its economic and social development, China firmly chose the route of sustainable development. China's material experts have been pondering over ecological and environmental problems throughout the process of material design, fabrication, application, disposal and recycling. In recent years, the applied fundamental research on ecomaterials has been underway through the priority foundation project of the National Education Committee, NSFC and project of China's High-Tech. 863. Chinese Ecomaterials Society, and the Chinese Center for Materials Life Cycle Assessment (CCMLCA) are now being established. With the guidance and support of the government, our material researchers are now carefully drawing up a sustainable material development plan that is suitable for China's situation and carrying out extensive studies on ecomaterials science research and development of ecomaterials. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd All rights reserved.The technology of ferrous metals is well established. The use of iron and steel, in particular, is considerable and widespread. However, the processing of these materials is resource intensive and generates considerable pollutants, despite continual development. To maintain the use of these popular and versatile materials in the future will necessitate an increased attention to reductions in the consumption of natural resources and power, and greater sensitivity to the environment. This paper presents guidelines for ecological design of engineering product and processing of iron and steel in order to encourage greater processing and recycling efficiencies. It also describes the use of life-cycle analysis as a technique to assess the impact of change on society. The techniques are illustrated through the application of automobile manufacture and use. It goes further to stress the importance of relevant education in the principles of edodesign as fundamental to the effective implementation. The paper concludes with recommendations for the future. (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.In this paper, a method of sequential and accumulative life cycle assessment for materials and products, and the concept of whole life cycle assessment (WLCA), are proposed. Some fundamental considerations for materials life cycle assessment (MLCA) are discussed. Also, the LCA software based on these ideas is introduced. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Multiple perspectives are presented on failure-event-chain analysis and failure cause categorization followed by description of a systems engineering framework for failure evaluation. The framework consists of engineering and organizational elements typically within the program manager span of control. The systems engineering lens is then used to evaluate 50 space system failures. The high level mapping of failure attributes (causal root structure) indicates the need for across the board systems engineering rigor. That is, failure can propagate from virtually every critical activity in a space system life cycle. Analysis results show strong implication of design, design verification & test, manufacturing/production, and manufacturing/production verification & test as recurrent causal factors in space system failures. The Failure Space perspective reminds one of the need
 for thorough and complete risk management and assurance process implementation over the life of a project as well as, increased emphasis on lessons learned and recurrent monitoring of critical process fidelity. (C) 2001 AIAA. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.Environmental issues in polymer processing can be related to materials/energy balances in terms of volatile emissions generated during manufacture and selection of appropriate material/energy recovery options for the manufactured product. This review presents information related to the types of volatiles emanating during the processing of commodity thermoplastics and reinforced thermosets along with analytical methods for their measurement. The identification of volatiles and the development of analytic techniques for measuring their concentration in the workplace are of paramount importance to establish or revise threshold limit values that would minimize exposure to hazardous chemical substances. With respect to material/energy recovery options applicable to fabricated polymer-based parts, this article reviews methodologies based on life-cycle analysis principles to establish an approximate hierarchy of energy recovery potential. It is shown that the overall energy requirements for most secondary (melt reprocessing) or tertiary (chemical) recycling alternatives are well below those of landfilling (highest energy consumption) and for some alternatives closer to those of reuse (lowest energy consumption). (C) 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.A wide range of industries are investigating methods of reducing their emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide(CO2), methane (CH4), and nitrous pride (N2O). Several options have been identified ranging from energy efficiency and reforestation to capture and storage in oceans, aquifers, or underground. Although greenhouse gases are not yet regulated, the power generation and petroleum industries are already considering greenhouse gas capture and storage methods to reduce their emissions to the atmosphere. Preferred options are the ones utilizing CO2 as a product and therefore providing an additional economic benefit to the oil and gas production process. Currently, CO2 is widely used for enhanced oil recovery (EOR) projects to extract more oil out of aging reservoirs: Thus, storage of CO2 in active reservoirs does not require technology advances and offers the advantage of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. The present research conducted a life cycle assessment to determine the benefits derived from staring CO2 in active reservoirs while enhancing the,extraction of oil and the impacts on the environment over the process lifetime. The potential for CO2 storage in: a specific oil reservoir in Texas was demonstrated, as well as the mass balance of greenhouse gas emissions generated from the energy-intensive process. Our findings suggest that the storage capacity of this reservoir is huge,the process emissions are minimal in comparison, and the EOR activity is almost carbon-neutral when comparing net storage potential and gasoline emissions from the additional oil extracted.A LCA (life cycle assessment) scheme for any industrial activity system is introduced to estimate the quantitative loan on the environment with the aid of the NETS (numerical environment total standard) method proposed by the authors as a numerical measu
re. Two kinds of environmental loads respecting fossil fuel depletion as input resources to the system and global warming due to CO2 emission as output are taken into account in the present eco-criterion, in which the total eco-load (EcL) value is calculated from the summation of respective environmental load factors on the whole process in a life cycle of the system. This NETS method is applied to eco-management co-generation systems, in which a computer-aided output navigator proceeds the LCA estimation,with ICON and Q&A communication. An operation scheme most friendly to the environment with a minimum EcL value, i.e., an eco-operation scheme, is derived from the optimization theory.Until recently waste production was seen as an inevitable outcome of industrial production and processing, and a problem that could be managed by end-of-pipe and ill situ biotreatment, disposal, or simply be ignored. However the introduction of clean, or cleaner, technology options now is focussing attention on the minimisation of materials and energy use, and waste generation, and upon recycle. Thus clean technology has emerged as a concept that is compatible with industrial sustainability, and whose environmental benefits and economic competitiveness have been demonstrable over a range of industrial sectors. Biotechnology is an enabling technology that offers one important route to clean products and processes; it provides powerful and versatile tools that can compete with chemical and physical means of reducing both material and energy consumption, and tl-re generation of wastes and emissions. The wide penetration of biotechnology in industry has still to occur but many examples of its ability to deliver clean and competitive products and processes are now available particularly through the development and application of biocatalysts. The introduction of clean or cleaner processing does not necessarily entail a complete change in manufacturing strategy or the refitting of plant. Upgrading existing manufacturing processes by fitting biotechnology unit stages illustrates the opportunities for such intermediate technology. Nevertheless, for biotechnology to achieve its full potential as a basis for clean industrial products and processes beyond its current applications, innovative R&D will be needed. The successful application of biotechnology as a clean technology is illustrated in this review through a series of case studies, while the innovative nature of biotechnology in this context is demonstrated by the development and application of novel biocatalysts.Authors have evaluated the life cycle of a thin-film CdS/CdTe PV module to estimate the energy payback time (EPT) and the life-cycle CO(2) emissions of a residential rooftop PV system using the CdS/CdTe PV modules. The primary energy requirement for producing 1 m(2) of the CdS/CdTe PV module was similar to a-Si PV module at annual production scale of 100 MW. EPT was calculated at 1.7-1.1yr, which was much shorter than the lifetime of the PV system and similar to that of a-Si PV modules. The life-cycle CO(2) emissions were also estimated at 14-9 g-C/kWh, which was less than that of electricity generated by utility companies. (C) 2001 Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Using a global systemic approach, the wind energy system operation behaviour is first simulated using five different t
ypes of power curve for the wind turbine. Adding physical (charge current limitation) and cost considerations, we have determined the optimized energy system for various levels of satisfaction (LLP), i.e. both able to satisfy the load with a certain percentage of the load not satisfied and to offer the lowest kWh cost. We studied the influences of the power profile of the wind turbine that affect productivity and the relative repartition between input power and output power and wasted energy. This wasted energy decreases rapidly with the value of the LLP. Copyright (C) 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.An innovative mathematical programming decision support model Life Cycle Activity Analysis (LCAA) - is presented, integrating considerations of optimal allocations of resources and impacts upon the environment during the life cycle of products. LCAA is based on the classical formulation of activity analysis on the life cycle assessment framework. The concept of linear activities is extended to embrace mass and energy fluxes over the entire life cycle of products including their environmental impacts. Special attention is given to the presence of loops in the product chains, such as those occurring when materials/products are recovered (reused, recycled.). An application brought from the Portuguese bottled water industry is described. The model features alternative activities for production technologies and product recovery strategies and permits the joint consideration of monetary costs and environmental burdens. The results obtained under five scenarios, including distinct disposal strategies and environmental constraints, are discussed.Life-cycle analysis (LCA) is most commonly used to inform the product design process, but here the focus is on institutional design issues - contracts, rules, and procedures that govern the behavior of individuals working in large organizations. To illustrate the issues, this study investigates the procurement, use, and disposal of microcomputers in state government agencies in Trenton, New Jersey, USA. It finds evidence of environmentally and economically suboptimal asset management, much of which can be explained and mitigated by considering the associated transaction costs. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Aerospace design processes demand the best talent (regardless of geographic location), with access to the best design and analysis tools to reduce design cycle times and cost without sacrificing reliability or safety. The solution is a collaborative, distributed engineering environment for life-cycle analysis. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) is developing such an advanced engineering environment, called the Intelligent Synthesis Environment (ISE). This paper reports the progress made in developing ISE, future development plans and ISE success stories to date.The modem design concept is focused on the life - cycle, such that all the aspects of the designed systems, and the corresponding dependencies are considered. These conditions are fulfilled by the concurrent engineering (CE) approach that creates a new context for design and management according to which the life - cycle design is performed by functional and disciplinary heterogeneous teams. Thus, results a new concept for computer aided design (CAD) that must support system's life-cycle analysis and design. Def
ining the CE context for electronics, the present paper determines the main elements of the CE-CAD concept, and the basic functional architecture of the corresponding environment in creating a total product design, highlighting, as a result, the concept of virtual 'world' distributed manufacturing enterprise.The objective of this project is to build internet-based educational materials that address the economic impact of electronic packaging technology, specifically the process of predicting the manufacturing and life cycle cost of electronic systems during their design and development process. This paper reports progress on: 1) the development and dissemination of web-based instructional materials for use in cost analysis courses and as supplemental materials for a broad cross-section of other courses in the electronics and electronic packaging areas; and 2) the expansion of the elements within the course that address life cycle costs, particularly the concepts of life cycle assessment (LCA) and design for environment (DFE). Six internet-based modules are being developed. The modules developed include a mixture of lecture materials tin textual and video format), case studies, on-line computational toots, bibliographies, links, and discussion/homework problems. The modules are internet-based and could be hosted by a central organization such as the IEEE.To reduce the environmental burden of agriculture, suitable methods to comprehend and assess the impact on natural resources are needed. One of the methods considered is the life cycle assessment (LCA) method, which was used to assess the environmental impacts of 18 grassland farms in three different farming intensities - intensive, extensified, and organic - in the Allgau region in southern Germany. Extensified and organic compared with intensive farms could reduce negative effects in the abiotic impact categories of energy use, global warming potential (GWP) and ground water mainly by renouncing mineral nitrogen fertilizer. Energy consumption of intensive farms was 19.1 GJ ha(-1) and 2.7 GJ t(-1) milk, of extensified and organic farms 8.7 and 5.9 GJ ha(-1) along with 1.3 and 1.2 GJ t(-1) milk, respectively Global warming potential was 9.4, 7.0 and 6.3 CO2-equivalents ha(-1) and 1.3, 1.0 and 1.3 CO2-equivalents t(-1) milk for the intensive, extensified and organic farms, respectively. Acidification calculated in SO2-equivalents was high, but the extensified (119 kg SO2 ha(-1)) and the organic farms (107 kg SO2 ha(-1)) emit a lower amount compared with the intensive farms (136 kg SO2 ha(-1)). Eutrophication potential computed in PO4-equivalents was higher for intensive (54.2 kg PO4 ha(-1)) compared with extensified (31.2 kg PO4 ha(-1)) and organic farms (13.5 kg PO4 ha(-1)). Farmgate balances for N (80.1, 31.4 and 31.1 kg ha(-1)) and P (5.3, 4.5 and -2.3 kg ha(-1)) for intensive, extensified and organic farms, respectively, indicate the different impacts on ground and surface water quality. Analysing the impact categories biodiversity, landscape image and animal husbandry, organic farms had clear advantages in the indicators number of grassland species, grazing cattle, layout of farmstead and herd management, but indices in these categories showed a wide range and are partly independent of the farming system. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Annual crops for energy genera
tion from agriculture are usually processed as cereal bales with air-dry biomass. As a promising alternative a novel concept of moist biomass has been developed. In this concept biomass is produced in a "double-cropping system" and processed via ensiling and mechanical dehydration. The aim of this paper is to describe the concept of moist biomass provision in comparison with air-dry biomass provision. To assess the advantages and disadvantages of the two concepts, they are compared with each other regarding environmental and economic aspects. The methodological approaches used as well as selected results are presented. Among others, the results show that the provision of moist biomass could be advantageous concerning some environmental aspects but the energy provision costs are significantly higher. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Computational building simulation tools have historically viewed buildings as artefacts isolated and disconnected from their contexts. At most, the external environmental conditions have been viewed as outside influences or stressors encapsulated in, for example, weather files for energy simulation or sky models for lighting simulation. In the field of environmental assessment, life cycle analysis (LCA) has followed a similar path of isolating the artefact under analysis from its context. Modeling the building artefact as a participant in multiple contexts over time so that the interactions and dependencies between the regions and the building can be adequately explored in the design process requires support for the modeling of regional areas, as well as the artefact and the related life cycle processes. Using computational design and evaluation tools can provide the computing capability required for effective design decision support. This paper presents the implementation of the affordance impact assessment method and the regional enviromnental simulation in Ecologue. Ecologue is the computational tool for life cycle environmental impact assessment in the SEWER integrated building design and simulation system. Ecologue contains a building model and an environmental model. The building model is automatically derived from the shared building model of the SEMPER system. The environmental model is a combination of a representation of the processes and emissions occurring in the life cycle of buildings and an impact assessment model, The impact assessment model is a combination of a context model of the physical characteristics of a region and a sub-regional fate and transport model based on the fugacity concept.One step in the synthesis for FPGA-based Reconfigurable Computers (RCs) involves mapping the design data structures onto the physical memory banks available in the hardware. The advent of Xilinx Virtex-style FPGAs and of hierarchical memory schemes on reconfigurable boards introduced an added complexity to this mapping. The new RC boards offer a wealth of memory banks many of them on-chip (such as the BlockRAMs available in the Virtex architecture) and many of them offering variable number of ports and several depth/width configurations. Along with the external RAMs, a hierarchy of memories with varying access performances are available in a reconfigurable computer it becomes critical to perform a good mapping to achieve optimal design performance. This paper presents an automatic memory m
apping methodology which rakes into account: the number of words and word size of design data segments and physical memory banks, number of ports on the banks, access latency of the banks, proximity of the hanks to the processing unit, life cycle analysis of data segments, and it also incorporates configuration selection from the multiple configurations available in BlockRAMs of Virtex series FPGAs. In the case of multiple processing elements on board, the paper also provides a framework in which the task of memory mapping interacts with spatial partitioning to provide the best implementation.In recent years ecological aspects in streams have been a center of public attention. Nature friendly river works, which have been done by mainly nature material since 1981, are well known to have an effect of reducing CO2. However almost nature friendly river works are more expensive than conventional river works. Namely nature friendly river works have destiny trade-off between environment and money. The necessity of the project evaluation of a public works rises. Especially, the value of the environment is remarkable. Then we should evaluate clearly the value of river environment in point of money. We proposed the LCA method. The effect of the reduction of CO2 is evaluating analyzed. The LCA evaluation of the Tama River Basin was concretely done by the input-output analysis of inter-industry relationships. The input-output analysis was pursued from money the effect to all industries which the reduction of CO2 brought respect. We proposed the cost-benefit analysis to put the benefit of the river environment together in the effect of the stock of river works in the past investigation. The System for Integrated Environmental Economic Accounting was made based on the I/O table which was in existence. The effect of flow was calculated by applying this to actual river works for environmental improvement.The assessment of sustainability requires alternative and integrated approaches for a deeper understanding of the complex network of interactions occurring between humans and the environment, In the present publication we will present an overview of some of the more interesting environmental accounting indicators (methodologies). The ecological footprint, as proposed by Wackernagel and Rees, quantifies the intensity of resources used and the waste discharge activity in a specified area in relation to the area's capacity to provide for that activity. Emergy analysis is an holistic methodology which can evaluate both the contribution of economics and environmental work on a common basis. Odum defines emergy as the solar energy directly and indirectly required to generate a specific flow or a product. This quantity represents the memory of all energy, matter and time that the biosphere used to make a product available. The indicator exergy is a more effective way to verify if and how much a system is efficient, whether in a single productive process or on a territorial level because it includes both quantity and quality aspects. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) permits a systematic analysis of the effects of a particular human activity on the environment. This method allows an environmental diagnosis of the whole story of a product, from its production until the exhaustion of its functions and effects: a cycle called "cradle to grave'. All this methodologies are f
ocusing only on particular aspects of the overall, so the integration is recommended, in order to have a global and more accurate vision of the problem.Environmental assessment of energy utilization technologies is essential to the efficient utilization of energy resources and the development of human society. The paper will develop a methodology for LCA of the energy utilization technologies. After general description of the methodology, a detailed case on coal-fired thermal power plant will be analyzed in the paper. The inputs and emissions inventories through the main life cycle stages are listed. The paper tries to assess environmental impact quantitatively of coal-fired thermal power plants. It is expected that the paper can contribute some to the development of LCA on energy utilization technologies.An exergetic life cycle assessment (ELCA) and a classical environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) has been performed for a carbon dioxide low emission power cycle. The configuration of the power cycle is a semi-closed gas turbine combined cycle (SCGT/CC) which allows increasing of the CO2 concentration in the hue gases. The decreasing CO2 Plant (DeCO(2) Plant) achieves a CO2 reduction of 85% by means of chemical absorption with a blended solution of amines. The LCA is mainly focussed on CO2 production during the three phases of construction, operation and dismantling of the complete SCGT/CC + DeCO(2) plant. This is necessary to verify if the process is effective in terms of CO2 reduction. Besides the classic LCA, an ELCA was also performed, whose aim was to assess the cost of the life cycle of the plant in terms of exergy losses. The results are quite encouraging: the CO2 reduction is effective during the life time. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Heat pumps stand out because they are energy efficient heating and cooling devices and able to reduce global CO2 emissions to as much as 6%, which is one of the largest potentials for a single technology. This paper discusses the results of studies carried out by the International Energy Agency Heat Pump Centre (HPC) concerning the international status of residential heat pump technology, markets, as well as efforts for accelerating the use of heat pumps in buildings. The impact of heat pump policy instruments is analyzed. The paper highlights how energy efficiency of heat pump and air conditioner equipment has evolved during the past decade. A recent HPC energy life cycle analysis of heat pumps shows that they contribute only marginally to global warming.The recent MSW (Municipal Solid Waste) Italian Regulation highlights strategies that allow reduction of both landfill use for non stabilised organic waste and organic fraction waste to energy process feeding. For this purpose, the new regulation defines a refuse derived fuel (RDF) fraction, obtained by separation of finest and organic fractions, from commingled waste collection. RDF production systems, for every single waste collection and management defined area, need a following incineration system as tail end treatment for energy recovery, able to treat the obtained high Low Heat Value (LHV). Two main different strategies are applicable: one or more RDF incineration units for every single waste collection and management area or a minor waste to energy unit number with respect to waste collection and management area numb
er. An overall environmental load corresponds to each different scenario, due to all the different system components; the main aim of the work is to highlight the different scenario environmental balances, in order to indicate a possible solution having a minimum environmental load. Referring to the Tuscany Region territorial scale, an overall environmental balance was carried out based on a LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) approach, as a suitable instrument for direct and indirect impacts, resource depletion and saving evaluation, concerning different scenarios.This paper proposes a mathematical model for life-cycle inventory analysis (LCI) of waste incineration in Switzerland. In order to model conventional and new incineration technologies adequately, fundamental aspects of the different technologies relevant for the LCI are discussed. The environmental impact of these technologies strongly depends on the assessment of the long-term emissions of the solid incineration residues and is therefore related to value based decisions about the time horizon considered. The article illustrates that the choice of the landfill model has a significant influence on the results of life-cycle assessment of waste incineration.General public environmental awareness and education is increasing, therefore stimulating the demand for reliable, objective and comparable information about products' environmental performances. The recently published standard series ISO 14040 and ISO 14025 are normalizing the preparation of Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) containing comprehensive information relevant to a product's environmental impact during its life cycle. So far, only a few environmentally leading manufacturing organizations have experimented the preparation of EPDs (mostly from Europe). demonstrating its great potential as a marketing weapon. However the preparation of EPDs is a complex process, requiring collection and analysis of massive amounts of information coming from disparate sources (suppliers. sub-contractors, etc.). In a foreseeable future, the streamlining of the EPD preparation process will require product manufacturers to adapt their information systems (ERP, MES, SCADA) in order to make them capable of gathering, and transmitting the appropriate environmental information. It also requires strong functional integration all along the product supply chain in order to ensure that all the information is made available in a standardized and timely manner. The goal of the present paper is two fold: first to propose a transitional model towards green supply chain management and EPD preparation: second to identify key technologies and methodologies allowing to streamline the EPD process and subsequently the transition toward sustainable product development.This study was performed jointly by ENEA (Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Environment), Bologna and Florence Universities and the firm BEGHELLI. The system function to be studied is the lighting of a room where a blackout has occurred. The functional unit is an emergency lamp manufactured by BEGHELLI, provided by a fluorescent tube and an accumulator battery with lead elements. The lamp life lasts 10 years. LCA is obtained by using the SimaPro 3.1 code and two methods: Eco indicator 95 with the normalisation weight ascribed to 10 years and a new method obtained by enclos
ing into the Eco - indicator 95 method some new damage categories such as some raw material depletion, solid and energy. The results show that the accumulator battery, the structure of the lamp and the electronic board are the components with greater environmental damage and the electrical energy for use produces 31% of total damage calculated by the Eco indicator method. The most important categories of damage produced by accumulator battery are acidification due to material production and heavy metals due to disposal treatment of lead, and the ones produced by electronic card are acidification and winter smog due to copper production. To reduce the damage of emergency lamp some new solutions have been proposed. Finally the characteristics to obtain emergency lamp Ecolabel have been proposed.This study was performed jointly by ENEA (Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Environment), Bologna and Florence Universities and the firm FINI COMPRESSORI. The functional unit is an axial air compressor manufactured by FINI COMPRESSORI, lubricated, having a 25-litres air tank, provided by 1.8 kW electrical motor. The system boundaries include raw material extraction and the end of life of the compressor. All metallic materials have the recycling as waste scenario. The LCA is obtained by using the SimaPro 3.1 code and the two methods Eco-indicator 95 and Ecopoints. The results show that air tank and stator of electrical motor are the components with greater environmental damage, even if the damage is mainly due to the electrical energy consumed during use. The most important categories of damage produced by the air tank are carcinogenic substances, heavy metals and acidification due to the material and processes used for its manufacturing and the ones produced by aluminium part of stator are acidification and winter smog due to material manufacturing. To reduce the damage of air compressor we have proposed some design solutions to lower air temperature in cylinder and at collector outlet.When the life cycle of a product, material or service, studied in a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) affects other life cycles not included in the system in analysis, it is necessary to apply allocation rules. Allocation can be defined, in LCA context, as the act of assigning the environmental loads of a system to the functions of that system in proportionate shares. Most of the available allocation methods are of generic application and do not take into account the quality of the materials to be recycled. The few that do take quality into account attribute to it a quantitative value. Methods that are both generic and scientifically correct are generally difficult to apply. Rules that are simple enough for a case by case application could lead to LCA studies that cannot be compared. This way, the best will be to dispose of simple methods but fair and mathematically correct methods available with a fundamentally driven application to a sector of economic activity. In this study a method of allocation is proposed which takes into account primarily the "qualitative" value of the material to be recycled. irrespective of being a pos-consumption product/material or a secondary material of a production process. Through a case study, the potential of application of the proposed method is demonstrated, in the recycling of products coming from wood industries a
nd its derivatives, when compared with other allocation methods.The objective of this Life Cycle Environmental Cost Analysis (LCECA) model is to include eco-costs into the total cost of the products. Eco-costs are both the direct and indirect costs of the environmental impacts caused by the product in its entire life cycle. Subsequently, this LCECA model identifies The feasible alternatives for cost effective, eco-friendly parts/products. This attempts to incorporate costing into the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) practice. Ultimately, it aims to reduce the total cost with the help of green or eco-friendly alternatives in all the stages of the life cycle of any product. The new category of eight eco-costs is being included in the cost breakdown structure. The mathematical model of LCECA aims to define the relationships between the total cost of products and the various eco-costs concerned with the life cycle of the products, and determine quantitative expressions between the above said costs. A computational LCECA model has been developed to compare the eco-costs of the alternatives. This model will include a break-even analysis to evaluate the alternatives, sensitivity and risk analysis modules. This model aims at a cost-effective, eco-friendly product as an end result. This LCECA model will be compatible with the existing LCA software tools.This study was performed jointly by ENEA (Italian National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Environment), Bologna and Florence Universities and the firm FINI COMPRESSORI. A comparison is carried out between the environmental damages of two models (MK10 and MK94) of air axial compressors manufactured by FINI COMPRESSORI, with a volume of intaken air of 226 l/min, a power of 1.8 kW and a maximum pressure of 10 bar. The comparison is obtained by using LCA calculated by SimaPro 3.1 code and two methods: Eco-indicator 95 and a new method obtained by adding to the Eco-indicator 95 method other damage categories such as some raw material depletion, solid and energy. The system boundaries include raw material extraction and the end of life of the components and some special tools for manufacturing such as dies, moulds and shells. All metallic materials have the recycling as waste scenario. For LCA study we have considered the three components crankshaft, crankcase and valve plate for both the models, the air cooling conveyor for the MK94 and the surplus of consumed energy for the MK10. The conveyor decreases the temperature of air and therefore increases the compressor efficiency and reduces the electrical energy consumption during the use. From the LCA results, we can conclude that the introduction of the conveyor reduces the damage of MK10 model of 114.07 mPt and that the other modifications of the design increase the damage of MK10 model of 11 mPt. The damage of air compressor can be diminished by reusing crankshaft and crankcase. A design modification of the blades of the ventilator is proposed to avoid the conveyor.This study presents a methodology for capturing the environmental impact of a product and its processes throughout the life cycle in discrete part manufacturing. The objectives of the study are to identify opportunities to enhance environmental friendliness of a product in its design stage, and assess whether the environmental impact has actually been reduced or has simply been shifted el
sewhere in the life cycle of the product. Using the bill of materials and the process route sheet, we build the environmental status of its operations as a vector of measurable attributes, categorized under the taxonomy of social, ecological, and economic impact that can be aggregated and evaluated at a business unit level. The vector of social impact deals with the effects of materials used and wastes produced on people through the life cycle. The vector of ecological impact consists of effects of recycling, reuse, and remanufacturing of a product based on the notion of materials balance. Finally, the vector of economic impact represents the conversion of the previous two vectors into managerially relevant costs to firm expressed in dollar amounts so that managers in any positions visually appraise their operations and communicate each other with the same language.Data and time requirements and complex methodological problems of a detailed Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) are well-known and discussed. Its application has specific difficulties in Italian Small- and Medium- sized Enterprises (SMEs) where environmental information is generally dispersed, a short-term problem-oriented environmental management approach is common and dedicated human resources are usually missing. As a consequence, a new procedure specifically designed for SMEs, VerdEE (Verifica dell'Eco-Efficienza - Verification of Eco-Efficiency), was developed and implemented on an interactive CD-ROM. It is based on the following criteria: relying on a life cycle approach; aimed at evaluating the environmental profile of a product and at identifying improvement opportunities; sufficiently simple to be applied in a limited time: containing as much quantitative information as possible to make it usable by a non-expert user. The VerdEE procedure includes four main steps: "Goal and Scope definition"; semi-quantitative "Inventory"; "Check-list"; visualisation of results in "Matrix" and "Target-plot" form. The procedure is supported by an interconnected informative part about advantages of the life cycle approach for SMEs, principles of eco-design and environmental concerns.Technological development is seen as one of the fundamental forces in shaping the modern economies. The effects and the role of technological development are also central questions in many issues of environmental protection. This paper presents the results of a life cycle assessment study of the Finnish pulp an paper industry. Three comparative scenarios are drawn. Two scenarios describe the technological levels and production volumes of 1993 and 1997. A comparison scenario with the production volumes of 1997 and the technological level of 1997 describes the effects avoided by improvements. The results demonstrate that technological development has had considerable effects on the material flows of the industry within a relatively short period of time. Changes in most material flows result from various improvements. The environmental performance of the industry has been improved by both changes in operative practices as well as capital investments. The study fails to describe some aspects of realized developments and thus indicates that factors connected to technological change are highly problematic for LCA modelling.Ecologically Sustainable Development (ESD) has been embraced by governments worldwide and as buildin
g plays a key role in development, it is implicated in this movement. Consideration of the whole life cycle of a building is a major aspect, when assessing its sustainability. While the reduction of operating energy and the optimization of building material selection has been a main focus of research in Europe, the consideration of maintenance during operation or the demolition of a building at the end of its life has usually been neglected. Aiming for sustainability the conversation of materials and energy by applying a closed system approach on a long term time scale must be realized. Therefore building materials are to be recycled, building elements are to be reused and buildings are to be more flexible. Designing to facilitate the disassembly of building elements is expected to be an improvement for sustainable buildings. A tool for the assessment of building elements has been developed that focuses on connection selection, its influence on material and energy flow, as well as the quality of building waste materials. The assessment of material production and erection processes, using Life Cycle Assessment is completed with a qualitative/quantitative classification of demolition processes, and disposal scenarios, considering environmental, economic and technical aspects. An analysis of floor elements has confirmed, that Design for Disassembly is very promising for the improvement of sustainable buildings but that improvement potentials can differ considerably. Details of the analysis tool developed and an analysis of building elements will be shown in this article.The VAMP project (VAlorization of building demolition Materials and Products, LIFE 98/ENV/IT/33) aims to build an effective and innovative information system to support decision making in selective demolition activity and to manage the valorization (recovery-reuse-recycling) of waste flows produced by the construction and demolition (C&D) sector. The VAMP information system will be tested it in Italy in some case studies of selective demolition. In this paper the proposed demolition-valorization system will be compared to the traditional one in a life cycle perspective, applying LCA methodology to highlight the advantages of VAMP system from an eco-sustainability point of view. Within the system boundaries demolition processes, transport of demolition wastes and its recovery/treatment or disposal in landfill were included. Processes avoided due to reuse-recycling activities, such as extraction of natural resources and manufacture of building materials and components, were considered too. In this paper data collection procedure applied in inventory and impact assessment phases and a general overview about data availability for LCA studies in this sector are presented. Results of application of VAMP methodology to a case study are discussed and compared with a simulated traditional demolition of the same building. Environmental advantages of VAMP demolition-valorization system are demonstrated quantitatively emphasizing the special, importance of reuse of building components with high demand of energy for manufacture.SF6 gas insulated high voltage switchgear (GIS) has been installed in an increasing number over the last three decades. GIS covering the voltage range from 72,5kV to 800kV are now in service worldwide. The driving forces for installing GIS instead of traditional ai
r insulated switchgear (AIS) were, among other the needs to cope with space limitation in densely populated urban areas (installations in buildings and underground) to increase availability in areas exposed to high atmospheric stress (pollution, extreme climatic conditions) to improve safety of operation in earthquake areas to meet special requirements of hydroelectric plants. Economic considerations and the progress in GIS technology have reduced the gap in the overall cost relationship between AIS and GIS and thus increased the application range of this technology. Besides the economic aspects such issues as the space saving potential, improved safety and reliability, favourable maintenance, increased service availability, and insensitivity to external disturbances have played a key role. This paper comparatively presents the major layout and design features of GIS and AIS and the related performance characteristics. These allow to determine functional advantages, to carry out life cycle cost (LCC) comparisons, and to assess environmental issues (LCA - life cycle assessment). For the value based comparison exemplified LCC has been given the main impact followed by performance issues and environmental impact. As a result GIS and AIS technology achieve similar ranking values, depending on the specific assessment. The optimisation of GIS technology with respect to lowest life cycle cost, highest availability and zero-maintenance has made GIS competitive with AIS not only at special application fields.Industries are investigating methods to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases (such as carbon dioxide, methane and others). Several options have been proposed ranging from energy efficiency, to reforestation, to capture and sequestration in lakes, oceans or underground. The power generation and petroleum industries are considering greenhouse gas capture and sequestration methods to reduce their emissions to the atmosphere. Preferred options are the ones utilizing the CO2 as a product and therefore providing an additional valuable benefit to the production process. CO2 is widely used for enhanced oil recovery projects to extract more oil out of aging reservoirs. For this reason, storage Of CO2 in active reservoirs by using enhanced oil recovery is very attractive and would add to the extraction of oil the incentives of storing CO2 and reducing emissions. This work will investigate the benefits derived from storing CO2 in active reservoirs while recovering oil. We will demonstrate the potential for CO2 sequestration in a specific oil reservoir in Texas, as well as the mass balance of greenhouse gas emissions generated from the energy intensive process. This paper will also demonstrate how the overall sequestration efficiency can be enhanced by utilizing captured and recycled CO2 from natural gas treating plants instead of using CO2 from pure CO2 natural reservoirs.An Exergetic Life Cycle Assessment (ELCA) and a classical environmental Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) have been carried out for a zero CO2 emissions power cycle. It is basically a regenerative gas cycle operating on CO2 as the working fluid and using O-2 as the fuel oxidiser. The main cycle feature is the removal of the CO2 produced in the combustion process in liquid or supercritical state at high pressure levels, ready for transportation, reuse or final storage. The LCA is mainly 
focussed on CO2 production during the three phases of construction, operation and dismantling of the complete plant. This is necessary to verify if the process is effective in terms Of CO2 reduction. Besides the classic LCA, also an ELCA was performed, whose aim is to assess the cost, in term of exergy losses, of the life cycle of the plant. Results showed an effective decrease Of CO2 emissions during the entire life cycle if compared with those of a conventional combined cycle. Concerning the Exergetic Life Cycle Assessment, results showed that the major exergy waste occurs during the cycle operating phase, due to the combustion process.The Australian Coal Industry has committed to the investigation of strategic options for sustainable development. This paper summarises Stage I of the study; a life cycle analysis for steel and electricity production in Australia. The study shows that coal-based steelmaking can compete favourably with the new gas-based technologies in Greenhouse gas emissions. Although the GGEs from coal-based electricity production is higher than for gas and for renewable energy, the study has shown that the emerging clean coal technologies and synergies with renewable energy can give a marked improvement - both now and into the future. The present LCA study will continue as part of a broader research program, Coal in a Sustainable Society, supported by the coal industry and others. The findings and outcomes of this work will form the basis of a concerted awareness and education program by the coal industry in working with government and the broader community. This will further provide a platform to launch the investigative and technology transfer work of the proposed CRC for Coal in Sustainable Development.Environmental Life Cycle Analysis, ELCA, has been used for assessing the environmental impact of the synthesis of methanol using either carbon monoxide or recovered carbon dioxide. The best mixing for the minimisation of both the emissions and hydrogen consumption has been shown to be a 3:1 molar ratio of CO and CO2. The preliminary results of a cost analysis and energy assessment, mixing steam and dry reforming, are also presented. The same methodology has been used for the assessment of three different synthetic pathways for dimethylcarbonate, including the one based on the use of phosgene, a process now on stream that has a high environmental impact.This paper addresses the performance of the future options for the Swiss energy supply, with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and costs. Technological advancements expected for the next 20 years are fully credited. Particular attention is given to the potential contributions of decentralised cogeneration systems, heat pumps, renewables and energy conservation. The ecological analysis is based on Life Cycle Assessment. The results show that the replacement of current nuclear plants by advanced fossil systems is not compatible with policy goals aiming at reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. With the strategy based on nuclear energy, combined with strong promotion of renewables and conservation measures these objectives can be met and additional reductions may be achievable. The associated costs are, however, significantly higher than the ones for the current Swiss energy supply system.With the development of society, demand for energy is increasing day by day. With i
ncrease in population and settlements and environmental consciousness, stringent conditions are imposed on power generation. The paper analyses environmental impacts of hydropower vis-A-vis thermal and wind power generation in terms of area requirement, cost analysis and impacts based on life cycle assessment.In recent years, sustainable manufacturing has become important all over the world. Manufacturers have begun to realise the need for the responsible use and management of resources in the life cycle of a manufactured product, especially the planning for product retirement. The common end-of-life options are reuse, remanufacture, recycle, landfill, and incineration. This paper discusses a multi-objective methodology for determining appropriate end-of-life options for manufactured products, set against the often conflicting objectives of minimising environmental impact and minimising deficit (or sometimes maximising surplus). Guidelines for determining feasible end-of-life options (including the economic value of products and their components) are discussed. A numerical index of the environmental impact of a material or process - the eco-indicator - is adopted. Except for landfill and incineration, components of economic value destined for reuse, remanufacture, or recycling have first to be extracted from the product. It is therefore necessary to determine the optimal stage of disassembly, when all economically valuable components are retrieved. In order to determine the extent to which a product should be disassembled during its retirement, one may consider minimising environmental impact or associated costs or maximising the rate of return. Two end-of-life disassembly charts are introduced showing the impact on the environment and cumulative costs incurred as a product is disassembled. One of the charts can be used to assist in product design or redesign, whereas the other can be used to determine the optimal stage of end-of-life disassembly of the product. An end-of-life disassembly chart for a telecommunication pager revealed that if the pager is disassembled and its components reused, remanufactured, or recycled, the costs incurred will be very high. The pager is not designed for end-of-life retirement. It is best landfilled. The end-of-life options of a coffee maker were investigated using the methodology. It is concluded that the coffee maker is designed for end-of-life retirement. Complete product disassembly is always mandatory. If the coffee maker were completely disassembled and all components processed, the total disassembly time is 97 s, and a surplus of US$0.1918 is even realisable. The coffee maker was found to be designed for end-of-life retirement.How can private households contribute to a more resource-efficient food production system? The importance of meat consumption has previously been highlighted. Various life-cycle analysis studies suggest which products are favourable from an ecological point of view. This study uses a material flux analysis to assess material and energy fluxes of the entire system of food production and consumption. It compares different steps in production and consumption as well as different product categories. The results reveal that agricultural production and private households account for most of the system's energy requirements. The outcomes of two possible initiatives taken by private 
households are analysed by scenario calculation. It compares optimization of technical devices in private households with purchase decisions that favour organically produced food products. The results reveal an astonishing optimization potential of cooling devices in private households. However, it also shows the importance of specific parameters, such as the energy-mix coefficient.Life-cycle assessment is a useful instrument to evaluate the ecological performance of innovative energy systems. This paper investigates the production process of polymer electrolyte fuel cell (PEFC) stacks, identifies the ecological contributions of various components and materials and compares the results with impacts due to utilization of the stacks in a vehicle (i.e. hydrogen or methanol production and direct emissions). The production of fuel cell stacks leads to environmental impacts which cannot be neglected compared to the utilization of the stacks in a vehicle (the actual driving process). These impacts are mainly caused by the platinum group metals for the catalyst and, to a lesser degree, the materials and energy for the flow field plates. The paper identifies several options how to further enhance the environmental advantages of fuel cells. (C) 2000 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life-cycle assessments (LCAs) are conducted to satisfy the aspiration of decision makers to consider the environment in their decision making. This paper reviews decision analysis and discusses how it can be used to structure the assessment and to integrate characterization and valuation. The decision analytic concepts of objectives (goals) and attributes (indicators of the degree to which an objective is achieved) are used to describe steps of the assessment of the entire impact chain. Decision analysis distinguishes among different types of objectives and attributes; it describes how these relate to each other. Impact indicators such as the Human Toxicity Potential are constructed attributes. A means-ends objectives network can show how the different constructed attributes relate to the objective of protecting the environment. As LCA takes disparate environmental impacts into account, it needs to assess their relative importance. Trade-off methods in decision analysis are grouped into utility theory and multicriteria decision aids; they have different advantages and disadvantages, but are all more sophisticated than simple weighting. The performance of the different trade-off methods has not yet been tested in an LCA context. In the second part of the paper, we present criteria for the development of characterization methods.The application of the methodology Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is time-consuming and expensive. A definite interpretation, furthermore, is not always derivable from the determined results. The reason for the leeway of interpretation is frequently due to the imprecision and uncertainty of the ingoing data. An improved clearance of interpretation is to be expected by an ecological evaluation of methodology with the support of fuzzy-sets. The influence of uncertainties of ingoing data on evaluation results becomes transparent through a representation as fuzzy-sets. Thus, the interpretation of an uncertainty of assessment results is reduced in comparison to usual procedures for enviro
nmental LCA thus far. Time and cost saving is to be expected from the fact that the extensive quantification of many energy and mass flows is replaced by a fuzzy-set supported iteration loop, with which only the exact quantification of a few important flows is necessary.The determination and the assessment of Best Available Techniques (BAT) is one of the key issues in the realisation of the IPPC-Directive. While research has already focused on environmental benefits and technical practicability of techniques within LCA, little work has been carried out assessing economic feasibility. A methodology for the economic assessment of BAT in the framework of the IPPC-Directive on a plant level has to comprise all costs that accrue by measures to prevent, to reduce, to utilise or to remove emissions into water, air and soil caused by industrial production processes. The applied cost concept provides a systematic accounting and allocation of decision relevant costs and possibly revenues, that are pertinent to the economic assessment of BAT. The application of the methodology to a case study from the steel industry shows the practical use of the approach.Oxygen depletion of lake and seawater is a serious condition with large implications for biodiversity. Therefore, in LCA, the potential oxygen demand of water emissions is estimated under the label eutrophication impact category. This impact category should contain the impact of water emissions on the total oxygen consumption in the receiving water. This means that it should include both primary and secondary oxygen consumption. In spite of this, the oxygen needed to oxidise ammonia has normally not been taken into account when quantifying the eutrophication impact category. In this paper, weighting factors for ammonium/ammonia are suggested for the eutrophication impact category. It is shown that, for treated wastewater, the amount of oxygen needed for nitrification of ammonia is important when compared to the potential eutrophication calculated using the current recommended weighting factors. These weighting factors take into account oxygen needed to oxidise the organic matter in the wastewater emission and that needed to degrade the algae potentially grown due to the emission of nutrients.The environmental performance of a color computer monitor is investigated by implementing a Life Cycle Assessment. The goal of this study is to collect LCI data of foreground systems, to identify hot spots, and to introduce life cycle thinking at the product design stage. Secondary data are used in the background system, and site-specific data are collected in the foreground system. Results show that the use phase is the most contributing phase. The operating mode and the energy saving mode during the overall use phase contribute to the total by 59% and by 9.9%, respectively. In the production phase, the cathode ray tube assembly process and the printed circuit board assembly process are the most contributing processes. The sensitivity analysis on the use pattern scenario shows that the contribution ratio of the use phase ranges from 32% to 84%. Even in the home use case, which is the best case scenario, the use phase is one of the most contributing processes to the environmental performance of the color computer monitor. There is no significant difference in the choice of the impact assessment methodologies fo
r identifying the improvement opportunities. For the external use of Life Cycle Assessment in a short-run product for the market, it is recommended that Life Cycle Assessment should be carried out in parallel with the product design stage. It is also necessary to have a pre-existing, in-house database for a product group in order to accelerate life cycle procedures.From the very beginning, the research of Material Life Cycle Assessment (MLCA) has been an important part of the eco-materials research in China, and large numbers of researchers have been focusing their efforts on it. From 1998, and supported by the National High-tech Program-863 Projects, the study of some typical materials has been put into practice. Thus far, the first phase of the project has been finished smoothly. The practical MLCA methods have been developed, and the manufacturing technologies and processes of the steel and iron, aluminum, cement, ceramic, polymer and construction coatings have been assessed. The relevant assessment software has been developed. Reference systems are being set up for evaluation by studying typical materials. In this paper, the main achievements are reviewed. Some other developments of MLCA in China are also introduced.LCAccess is a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency sponsored web-site intended to promote the use of Life Cycle Assessments in business decision-making by facilitating access to data sources useful in developing a life cycle inventory (LCI). While LCAccess will not itself contain data, it will be a search-able global directory to potential data sources. In additional to directing users to relevant data sources, LCAccess will also serve as central source for LCA information. Development is currently being completed on LCAccess with an expected operational date of winter 2000/2001 for some features of the web-site. The LCI Global Directory is expected be fully functional by the summer of 2001. To find the LCAccess web-site in 2001 go to: www.epa.gov/LCAccess. LCAccess is currently soliciting organizations that have completed LCI/LCA studies to provide their data sources for reference in LCAccess. Inquiries should be directed to the development manager, Mr. Tim Skone (US 703/318-4745) and/or the EPA Sponsor, Ms. Mary Ann Curran (513/569-7782).The BEES (Building for Environmental and Economic Sustainability) software brings to your fingertips a powerful technique for balancing the environmental and economic performance of building products. The tool is based on consensus standards and designed to be practical, flexible, and transparent. Version 2.0 of the Windows(TM)-based decision support software, aimed at designers, builders, and product manufacturers, includes actual environmental and economic performance data for 65 building products. The purpose is to support purchasing decisions by providing key science-based information often lacking in 'green' product selection. The intended result is a cost-effective reduction in building-related contributions to environmental problems.The growing availability of software tools has increased the speed of generating LCA studies. Databases and visual tools for constructing material balance modules greatly facilitate the process of analyzing the environmental aspects of product systems over their life cycle. A robust software tool, containing a large LCI dataset and functions for perfor
ming LCIA and sensitivity analysis will allow companies and LCA practitioners to conduct systems analyses efficiently and reliably. This paper discusses how the GaBi 3 software tool can be used to perform LCA and Life Cycle Engineering (LCE), a methodology that combines life cycle economic, environmental, and technology assessment. The paper highlights important attributes of LCA software tools, including high quality, well-documented data, transparency in modeling, and data analysis functionality. An example of a regional power grid mix model is used to illustrate the versatility of GaBi 3.Two purposes for normalization in LCA are presented: resolving non-commensurate units, and assessing significance. Two families of approach for normalization in LCA are described: internal and external. The need for congruence between the normalization and valuation is illustrated by showing the nonsensical conclusions which can result from an approach that is common in North American LCA applications: internal normalization with external valuation. In order to achieve congruence with internal normalization methods, valuation in such instances must be case-specific. External normalization methods bring an added benefit not provided by internal normalization methods: an assessment of relative significance.Fate, exposure and effect measures provide a basis for the calculation of characterisation factors in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Such characterisation factors provide insights into the relative concern of chemical emissions within and across life cycle inventories, in the context of toxicological stress to humans and to ecosystems. A brief overview is presented in this paper of the available options for toxicological characterisation and of associated issues that will need to be addressed in future consensus-building initiatives. An introduction is provided to issues such as: (1) the benefit of measures calculated at midpoints versus at endpoints in the toxicological cause-effect chains (sometimes termed environmental mechanisms); (2) the need to use multimedia models with spatial resolution; (3) the political consequences of accounting for variations in population density; (4) uncertainties in the toxicological potency measures; and (5) the different options for the toxicological endpoint measure(s). These issues are addressed under the headings of Fate and Exposure, Human Health and (aquatic) Ecosystem Health.Three approaches recommended for characterization of toxicity impact potential in a life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) are tested on a case study and compared. The two equivalency factor methods are the Persistence, Bioaccumulation, and Toxicity (PBT) method and the Multimedia Fate Modeling (MFM) method using a Mackay Level III model with state-specific environmental data. The simplified risk assessment (SRA) method involved dispersion modeling using site-specific environmental data. The life cycle inventory information evaluated by all three methods was limited to manufacturing of the RDX-based explosive in Kingsport, Tennessee. The effort to collect site-specific environmental data and conduct air dispersion modeling for the SRA method required about 24 times more effort than the PBT method and about 4 times more effort than the MFM method. Direct comparison of impact potential scores for the three approaches were limited to inhalation toxi
city scores for nine air pollutants modeled by SRA. Correlations were made on the rank order of the impact potential scores for the nine air emissions evaluated for all three LCIA methods. Although the number of chemicals compared is very limited, the best correlation coefficient (0.96) was between the rank orders for the MFM and the SRA methods. The minimal effort and reduced accuracy of the PBT approach make it best suited for screening large numbers of chemicals for further evaluation of the highest ranked chemicals. The intermediate effort and reasonable accuracy (includes transfers to other media) of the MFM approach make it well suited for LCIAs involving comparative assertions or governmental policy decisions. The maximum effort and assumption of highest accuracy make the SRA approach suitable only after limiting the locations of interest to a few sites by screening with the other two approaches.The Human Toxicity Potential (HTP) is a quantitative toxic equivalency potential (TEP) that has been introduced previously to express the potential harm of a unit of chemical released into the environment. HTP includes both inherent toxicity and generic source-to-dose relationships for pollutant emissions. Three issues associated with the use of HTP in Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) are evaluated here. First is the use of regional multimedia models to define source-to-dose relationships for the HTP. Second is uncertainty and variability in source-to-dose calculations. And third is model performance evaluation for TEP models. Using the HTP as a case study, we consider important sources of uncertainty/variability in the development of source-to-dose models - including parameter variability/uncertainty, model uncertainty, and decision rule uncertainty. Once sources of uncertainty are made explicit, a model performance evaluation is appropriate and useful and thus introduced. Model performance evaluation can illustrate the relative value of increasing model complexity, assembling more data, and/or providing a more explicit representation of uncertainty. This work reveals that an understanding of the uncertainty in TEPs as well as a model performance evaluation are needed to a) refine and target the assessment process and b) improve decision making.LCA practice focuses on impacts resulting from the release of chemicals into the environment, but consideration of 'non-chemical impacts' is as important for LCA, particularly as it relates to sustainability. Methodologies and philosophies exist for addressing non-chemical impacts, particularly in the area of resource depletion and land use, but the problem of comparing or integrating chemical and non-chemical impacts remains. A new approach for identifying and integrating impacts involves the use of an object-oriented modeling and simulation platform, such as Department of Energy Argonne National Laboratory's Dynamic Information Architecture System (DIAS). LCA and impact categories can be described as 'objects' (at any level of detail or specificity) and any combination of objects and behaviors can be brought into a DIAS analysis frame. Related models that address objects' behavior characteristics are linked only to their respective objects, not to each other. Thus, maximum flexibility and speed is possible. The process of dividing LCA and impact assessment into a hierarchy of objects provides n
ew insights into the complex mixture of dynamic things, activities, and relationships inherent in LCA and sustainability. Ultimately, embracing the complexity of LCA may be the way to simplify it.Background. The primary purpose of environmental assessment is to protect biological systems. Data collected over the last several decades indicates that the greatest impacts on biological resources derive from physical changes in land use. However, to date there is no consensus on indicators of land use that could be applicable worldwide at all scales. This has hampered the assessment of land use in the context of LCA. Objectives. The Institute for Environmental Research and Education and its partner Defenders of Wildlife have begun an effort to develop the necessary consensus. Methods. In July 2000, they held a workshop attended by a diverse group of interested parties and experts to develop a preliminary list of life cycle indicators for land use impacts Results. Their preliminary list of impact indicators includes: protection of priority habitats/species; soil characteristics: soil health; proximity to & protection of high priority vegetative communities; interface between water and terrestrial habitats/buffer zones; assimilative capacity of water and land; hydrological function; percent coverage of invasive species within protected areas; road density; percent native-dominated vegetation; restoration of native vegetation; adoption of Best Management Practices linked to biodiversity objectives; distribution (patchiness; evenness, etc.); and connectivity of native habitat. Conclusion. The list of indicators conforms well to other efforts in developing indicators. There appears to be convergence among experts in the field and in related fields on the appropriate things to measure. Future Prospects. These indicators are currently being tested in the United States. Further workshops and testing is planned towards developing internationally recognized indicators for land use.The private sector decision making situations which LCA addresses must also eventually take the economic consequences of alternative products or product designs into account. However, neither the internal nor external economic aspects of the decisions are within the scope of developed LCA methodology, nor are they properly addressed by existing LCA tools. This traditional separation of life cycle environmental assessment from economic analysis has limited the influence and relevance of LCA for decision-making, and left uncharacterized the important relationships and trade-offs between the economic and life cycle environmental performance of alternative product design decision scenarios. Still standard methods of LCA can and have been tightly, logically, and practically integrated with standard methods for cost accounting, life cycle cost analysis, and scenario-based economic risk modeling. The result is an ability to take both economic and environmental performance - and their tradeoff relationships - into account in product/process design decision making.The goal of LCA is to identify the environmental impacts resulting from a product, process, or activity. While LCA is useful for evaluating environmental attributes, it stops short of providing information that business managers routinely utilize for decision-making - i.e., dollars. Thus, decisions regarding the processes use
d for manufacturing products and the materials comprising those products can be enhanced by weaving cost and environmental information into the decision-making process. Various approaches have been used during the past decade to supplement environmental information with cost information. One of these tools is environmental accounting, the identification, analysis, reporting, and use of environmental information, including environmental cost data. Environmental cost accounting provides information necessary for identifying the true costs of products and processes and for evaluating opportunities to minimize those costs. As demonstrated through two case studies, many companies are incorporating environmental cost information into their accounting systems to prioritize investments in new technologies and products.Modelling data uncertainty is not common practice in life cycle inventories (LCI), although different techniques are available for estimating and expressing uncertainties, and for propagating the uncertainties to the final model results. To clarify and stimulate the use of data uncertainty assessments in common LCI practice, the SETAC working group 'Data Availability and Quality' presents a framework for data uncertainty assessment in LCI Data uncertainty is divided in two categories: (1) lack of data, further specified as complete lack of data (data gaps) and a lack of representative data, and (2) data inaccuracy. Filling data gaps can be done by input-output modelling, using information for similar products or the main ingredients of a product, and applying the law of mass conservation. Lack of temporal, geographical and further technological correlation between the data used and needed may be accounted for by applying uncertainty factors to the non-representative data. Stochastic modelling, which can be performed by Monte Carlo simulation, is a promising technique to deal with data inaccuracy in LCIs.The subgroup 'Driving Forces for Data Exchange' as part of the SETAC LCA Workgroup on Data Availability and Quality is finishing its final report with recommendations and guidelines to stimulate availability and exchange of LCI data. Activities in the past three years involved a literature review, interviews with LCI data publishers and stakeholder discussions. The final report will be part of a SETAC 'Code of Life Cycle Inventory Practice', dealing with LCI data availability and quality aspects in a broader sense.The subgroup 'Energy, Transport and Waste Models' as part of the SETAC LCA Working Group on Data Availability and Data Quality is finishing its final report with recommendations and references on LCI data concerning energy, transport and waste. To achieve the objectives for each of the models for energy production, transportation and waste management the subgroup has supplied: A description of the technical function of LCA and the technical background of existing data, including the influence of using different energy carriers and technologies to reduce emissions a data quality description with separate checklists, based on understanding the technology aspects of energy production, transport and waste treatment and LCA thinking. The checklists are meant to be suggestions for data 'providers' of how to improve available data and also the availability of relevant data references for available relevant data guidelines for what
 to look for when selecting an appropriate data set.The ISO-standard for LCA distinguishes four phases, of which the last one, the interpretation, is the least elaborated. It can be regarded as containing procedural steps (like a completeness check) as well as numerical steps (like a sensitivity check). This paper provides five examples of techniques that can be used for the numerical steps. These are the contribution analysis, the perturbation analysis, the uncertainty analysis, the comparative analysis, and the discernibility analysis. All five techniques are described at a non-technical level with respect to basic concept, possibilities, tabular and graphical representation, restriction and warnings, and all are illustrated with a simple example.Intention, Goal and Scope: Dealing with data gaps, data asymmetries, and inconsistencies in life cycle inventories (LCI) is a general problem in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies. An approach to deal with these difficulties is the simplification of LCA. A methodology that lowers the requirements for data quality (accuracy) for process emissions within a simplified LCA is introduced in this article. Background: Simplification is essential for applying LCA in the context of design for environment (DfE). The tool euroMat is a comprehensive DfE software tool that is based on a specific, simplified LCA approach, the Iterative Screening LCA (IS-LCA). Within the scope of the IS-LCA, there is a quantitative assessment of energy-related processes, as well as a semi-quantitative assessment of non-energy related emissions which supplement each other. Objectives: The semi-quantitative assessment, which is in the focus of this article, aims at lowering the requirements for the quality of non-energy related emissions data through combined use of qualitative and quantitative inventory data. Methods: Potential environmental impacts are assessed based on ABC-categories for qualities (harmfulness) of emissions and XYZ-categories for quantities of emitted substances. Employing statistical methods assignment rules for the ABC/XYZ-categories were derived from literature data and databases on emissions to air, water, and soil. Statistical tests as well as a DfE case study (comparing the materials aluminum and carbon fiber reinforced epoxy for a lightweight container to be used in an aerospace application) were conducted in order to evaluate the level of confidence and practicality of the proposed, simplified impact assessment. Results: Statistical and technical consistency checks show that the method bears a high level of confidence. Results obtained by the simplified assessment correlate to those of a detailed quantitative LCA. Conclusions: Therefore, the application of the ABC/XYZ-categories (together with the cumulative energy demand) can be considered a practical and consistent approach for determining the environmental significance of products when only incomplete emission data is available. Future Prospects: The statistical base of the method is expanded continuously since it is an integral part of the DfE software tool euroMat, which is currently being further developed. That should foster the application of the method. Outside DfE, the method should also be capable of facilitating simplified LCAs in general.In literature, many models (qualitatively as well as quantitatively) can be found to cope with the p
roblem of communicating results of LCA analyses with decision takers. In a previous article of this journal, an LCA-based single indicator for emissions is proposed: the 'virtual pollution prevention costs '99' (Vogtlander et al. 2000a). In this article, a single LCA-based indicator for sustainability is proposed. It builds on the virtual pollution prevention costs '99 for emissions, and adds the other two main aspects of sustainability: material depletion and energy consumption. This single indicator, the 'virtual eco-costs '99', is the sum of the marginal prevention costs of: Material depletion, applying 'material depletion costs', to be reduced by recycling Energy consumption, applying 'eco-costs of energy' being the price of renewable energy Toxic emissions, applying the 'virtual pollution prevention costs '99' The calculation model includes 'direct' as well as 'indirect' environmental impacts. The main groups of 'indirect' components in the life cycle of products and services are: Labour (the environmental impacts of office heating, lighting, computers, commuting, etc.) production assets (equipment, buildings, transport vehicles, etc.) To overcome allocation problems of the indirect components of complex product-service systems, a methodology of economic allocation has been developed, based on the so called Eco-costs/ Value Ratio (EVR) model. This EVR calculation model appears to be a practical and powerful tool to assess the sustainability of a product, a service, or a product-service combination.The aim of this article is to show how, at PSA peugeot-citroen, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used as a tool to evaluate the environmental burdens associated with a product, a process or an activity by identifying and quantifying energy, material used and wastes released to the environment. In this paper, the LCA methodology is applied to a practical case study: the comparison of various end-of-life scenarios (recycling versus incineration with or without energy recovery with landfill as a reference) for a polypropylene (PP) bumper skin. All the LCA steps (goal, inventory, impacts assessment, interpretation) are developed in this study. It is shown that in the particular case of PP, incineration with energy recovery is on an environmental point of view between 30 and 60% recycling. However, due to some uncertainties on data quality, the absolute values of the inputs/outputs for the inventory step may not be sufficient to allow strong decision making and the use of the factorial experiments (Taguchi) is then proposed to select the dominant parameters of the study. Strong environmental conclusions can then be drawn from the study.The development and use of, as well as scientific discussions on, eco-balances and in particular life cycle assessment has largely occurred without involving experts on environmental law. However, in the light of recent proposals to 'legalize' eco-balances, i.e. formally introducing them into environmental law, the legal implications of eco-balancing must be addressed in the future. The formal introduction, especially of LCA, cannot be decided independent of the general economic and environmental policy implications of material flow management, and it raises major questions of policy and constitutional law. An important question of principle is whether eco-balances should be prescribed or only a legal framework set 
forth for voluntary use. In view of the unfinished methodological development of LCA, any formal introduction raises the constitutional problem of conformity with the requirements of legal certainty. References to the 'principles of good eco-balancing' are problematic, and an introduction on an experimental basis would have to be confined to cases where the legal consequences of grossly divergent interpretations of this term are tolerable to affected firms. Where eco-balances are prescribed as a method of preparing governmental or administrative decisions, one must determine whether and to what extent they are binding on the decision-maker, and develop proper mechanisms of participation, transparency and critical review.The knowledge and use of western-based environmental management tools like LCA (life cycle assessment) in Eastern Europe is very low. Discussions about introducing environmental management systems and taking care of environmental consequences of producing processes are very relevant now in Eastern European countries that want to become members of the European Union and to introduce their goods onto the international market. In this paper, the problems connected to introducing LCA based environmental management systems and Eco-Labeling in Eastern European countries are described. The poor financial condition of national sciences in Estonia does not appear to be the main problem. A brief overview of the development and current status of LCA research in Denmark, Finland and Japan is presented. Solutions to current problems are discussed, and experiences gained during conducting LCA research on oil shale energy production in Estonia are presented.Data availability and data quality are still critical factors for successful LCA work. The SETAC-Europe LCA Working Group 'Data Availability and Data Quality' has therefore focused on ongoing developments toward a common data exchange format, public databases and accepted quality measures to find science-based solutions than can be widely accepted. A necessary prerequisite for the free flow and exchange of life cycle inventory (LCI) data and the comparability of LCIs is the consistent definition, nomenclature, and use of inventory parameters. This is the main subject of the subgroup 'Recommended List of Exchanges' that presents its results and findings here: Rigid parameter lists for LCIs are not practical; especially, compulsory lists of measurements for all inventories are counterproductive. Instead, practitioners should be obliged to give the rationale for their scientific choice of selected and omitted parameters. The standardized (not: mandatory!) parameter list established by the subgroup can help to facilitate this. The standardized nomenclature of LCI parameters and the standardized list of measurement bases (units) for these parameters need not be applied internally (e.g. in LCA software), but should be adhered to in external communications (data for publication and exchange). Deviations need to be clearly stated. Sum parameters may or may not overlap - misinterpretations in either direction introduce a bias of unknown significance in the subsequent life cycle impact assessments (LCIA). The only person who can discriminate unambiguously is the practitioner who measures or calculates such values. Therefore, a clear statement of independence or overlap is necessary for every su
m parameter reported. Sum parameters should be only used when the group of emissions as such is measured. Individually measured emission parameters should not be hidden in group or sum parameters. Problematic substances (such as carcinogens, ozone depleting agents and the like) may never be obscured in group emissions (together with less harmful substances or with substances of different environmental impact), but must be determined and reported individually, as mentioned in paragraph 3.3 of this article. Mass and energy balances should be carried out on a unit process level. Mass balances should be done on the level of the entire mass flow in a process as well as on the level of individual chemical elements. Whenever possible, practitioners should try to fill data gaps with their knowledge of analogous processes, environmental expert judgements, mass balance calculations, worst case assumptions or similar estimation procedures.An integrated impact assessment model is used to calculate the impact per tonne of SO2, NOx, fine particles, and NMVOC emitted from different source countries on human health, acidification, eutrophication, and the man-made environment (crop yield and building materials). Indicators on the endpoint level are used to measure the effects resulting from a marginal change in emission levels. While the assessment of impacts on ecosystems and the man-made environment is limited to Europe, damage factors for health effects are also derived for Asia and South America. For Europe, emission scenarios for the years 1990 and 2010 are considered to analyse the influence of changing background conditions on the resulting impacts. Results show that there is a significant variation in the damage resulting from a unit emission for some of the impact categories, both between countries and between base years. Depending on the scope of the study and the information available from the life cycle inventory, results from the paper can be used to consider site dependent conditions in life cycle impact assessment as a complement to the current site-independent (or global) approach.Distance-to-target weighting methods are widely used in life cycle impact assessment. The methods rank impacts as being more important the further away society's activities are from achieving the desired targets for the pollutants. However, we feet that the scientific bases of the distance-to-target methods still need more clarification. This article illustrates how multiattribute value theory (MAVT) can be applied to interpret the impact category weights as well as the aggregation rule and normalisation used in the distant-to-target methods. Our comparison revealed that under certain conditions two of the three commonly used impact assessment methods (Ecoindicator 95, ET-method) applying distance-to-target weighting are consistent with the impact assessment framework derived from MAVT. This consistency holds for non-zero targets with equal importance and linear damage functions passing through the origin. We show that the MAVT framework offers a foundation for the methodological development in life cycle impact assessment.Application and development of the LCA methodology to the context of the building sector makes several building specific considerations necessary, as some key characteristics of products in the building sector differ considerably from those of 
other industrial sectors. The largest difference is that the service life of a building can stretch over centuries, rather than decades or years as seen for consumer products. The result of the long service life is that it is difficult to obtain accurate data and to make relevant assumptions about future conditions regarding, for example, recycling. These problems have implications on the issue of allocation in the building sector, in the way that several allocation procedures ascribe environmental loads to users of recycled or reused products and materials in the future which are unknown today. The long service life for buildings, building materials and building components, is associated with the introduced concept of a virtual parallel time perspective proposed here, which basically substitutes historical and future processes and values with current data. Further, the production and refining of raw material as a parallel to upgrading of recycled material, normally contains several intermediate products. A suggestion is given for how to determine the comparability of intermediate materials The suggested method for allocation presented is based on three basic assumptions: (1) If environmental loads are to be allocated to a succeeding product life cycle, the studied actual life cycle has to take responsibility for upgrading of the residual material into secondary resources. (2) Material characteristics and design of products are important factors to estimate the recyclable amount of the material. Therefore, a design factor is suggested using information for inherent material properties combined with information of the product context at the building level. (3) The quality reduction between the materials in two following product life cycles is indicated as the ratio between the market value for the material in the products. The presented method can be a good alternative for handling the problem of open-loop recycling allocation in the context of the building sector if a consensus for the use of the fictive parallel time perspective and the use of the design factor can be established. This as the use of the time perspective and design factor is crucial to be able to deal with the problem of long service lives for buildings and building materials and the specific characteristics of the same building materials and components built into different building contexts.The Life cycle inventory analysis (LCI) for the freight traffic with heavy duty vehicles in Germany was determined for the reference year 1995 and the target year 2010 by application of ISO 14040 and ISO 14041. Based on these results and under consideration of the dynamic development of road freight traffic with German heavy duty vehicles of >14 t max laden weight and composition of the German heavy duty vehicles fleet in this class the LCI for the introduction of various scenarios for reducing emissions from freight traffic was generated. Special emphasis was placed in the determination of the LCI for the implementation of primary, secondary and a combination of primary and secondary emission reduction measures for heavy duty diesel engines such as variation of diesel fuel characteristics, engine-based measures for exhaust gas optimisation, urea selective catalytic reduction (SCR) process with and without fuel consumption optimised diesel engines and particulate trap for exhaust gas 
optimised diesel engines with low sulphur diesel fuel. The overall environmental effects of the investigated measures on the other phases of the product life cycle of the freight traffic with heavy duty vehicles and on associated and new products to be introduced was included in the generated results for the LCI of each variant. For the implementation of the urea SCR process the results are based on manufacturer data for the overall production process of SCR honeycomb catalysts and SCR application measurements in engine and field test after a travelled distance of between 187,825 and 325,178 km under road traffic conditions with typical EURO 2 standard diesel engines for heavy duty vehicles with a max laden weight of >32 t under control of and data certification by TUV Automotive Bayern Sachsen GmbH.Goal. This research aims to assess the environmental effects of integrated strategies in a municipal waste management system. In particular, analysis is focused on a waste stream in Palermo, where landfill involves the prompt disposal of the most waste after collection. The current local management system is compared with two integrated waste management alternatives. Both the options comply with Italian regulations, but each one predicts adopting the available technologies in different ways. Methods and objectives. Energetic and environmental balances are carried out in each management system referring to local waste composition in order to quantify energy consumption, the recovery of material and energy, and the environmental releases. Impact assessment is carried out to define the environmental profile of each option. Impact categories are defined and inventory data, by means of a suitable aggregation, can be used to evaluate the potential contribution that system inputs and outputs could bring to the relative category. Results. In opposition to the current management, which involves energy balance at a loss, the mass and energy balances outcomes in both of the two hypothetical management systems show the capability to obtain energy and material recovery to a substantial extent. Sorted collection plays a remarkable role in the improvement of environmental performance of management systems. In particular, the thermal treatment of waste associated with energy recovery, and the concomitant material recycling, increase the saving of energy. Conclusions. Environmental pressure factors of the management system are assessed depending on the relevant consumption of raw materials and energy, and on the emission of pollutants. The resulting figures reflect the two different integrated management options as being sustainable solutions for achieving an improvement in environmental performance, which is based on increasing the value of waste, as an alternative to resources, and the reduction of environmental releases. Life Cycle Assessment of municipal waste management systems can be usefully applied to define synthetic indices of environmental impact. These indices could single out possible alternatives in multi-criteria analysis, together with economic and technical parameters.A new method for the spatially differentiated assessment of impacts of airborne pollutants on human health is presented. It is applicable to primary pollutants with linear exposure response functions. This includes the most important primary air pollutants from transportation and
 energy generation. The article looks at the spatial differentiation of impacts due to emission height and the local population density distribution around the emission site, as has been predicted using a Gaussian plume model. The differentiation due to population density is captured by way of five generic spatial classes: large cities in agglomerations, highly densified districts in agglomerations, cities in urbanized regions, country average districts, and low density rural districts in rural regions. Average impacts are calculated for each class. The method is simple enough to be applied to a large number of emissions within Life Cycle Assessments. It was used to calculate site-dependent exposure efficiencies for a variety of primary pollutants emitted at different heights. For traffic emissions of pollutants with short atmospheric residence times, the exposure efficiencies vary by a factor of 5 across Germany and by a factor of 75 across Europe. This differentiation due to population density decreases significantly with an increasing atmospheric residence time of the pollutants and with an increasing emission height.In the first part of this paper, we showed how lifecycle impact assessment can be described as an exercise in decision analysis. We developed a structure for how to decide on the relative importance of different environmental stressors. In this second part, we offer criteria for the grouping of stressors into impact categories and for the development of impact indicators. Facts to be included in a characterization method should be selected according to their relevance and combined following established scientific models. Facts should be included only if they are informative, that is, if sufficient and sufficiently certain information is available for all stressors that should be evaluated by this method. Abstract, constructed indicators at the 'midpoint level' are better suited to compare similar impacts than indicators reflecting 'observable environmental endpoints' if there is a large uncertainty about the effects on observable endpoints. We argue that midpoint modeling should be retained. The additional evidence introduced by endpoint methods should be used to support 'judgments about facts' needed to evaluate the importance of different impact categories (or means objectives) in the means-ends objectives network.This paper is guided by two premises. First, effective pollution prevention requires the demonstrated ability to decrease adverse environmental impacts at every stage of the life cycle of any given product. Firms that take full responsibility for the impacts of their products from cradle to grave experience high levels of organizational learning. A five-stage learning curve is proposed which stems mostly from the actions undertaken within a large firm or multinational context. The second premise is centered on the critical importance for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to 'green' their products. Based on a sample of 368 environmentally responsive SMEs, it is shown that they are making some progress towards dealing with the environmental impacts of their products, despite the fact that their product life cycle initiatives seem to be partial and limited in scope. They will, however, have to move faster along the proposed learning curve, since more advanced, stronger environmental performance will increa
singly constitute an asset for selling their products on the international scene or for qualifying as a subcontractor or supplier. Furthermore, empirical evidence demonstrates that improved environmental performance encourages process innovations and enhances corporate image and liability management, but tangible economic returns such as cost containment and revenue generation seem to be harder to achieve.Publicly available databases are analysed to demonstrate their relevance to life cycle inventory for energy production in the Canadian context. Site specific emissions along with sectoral emissions data are combined with production data to construct an energy production model, which has been applied to air emissions. The allocation procedure leads to reasonable results for coal, natural gas and electricity. The detailed allocation of the inventory among petroleum co-products is outside the scope of this study as it requires incorporating knowledge of physical relationship (unit process) or using economic data.Under consideration of the overall Life Cycle Inventory Analysis (LCI) results generated in the first step of this study and based on the February 1999 edition of ISO/DIS 14042 the Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) for the introduction of various emission control measures for freight traffic heavy duty vehicles in Germany was determined. For the examination of the several mandatory elements 11 impact categories related to the freight traffic and the LCT results were focussed, the LCI results were designed to these impact categories and with characterization factors of the 11 selected and recognized characterisation models the categories indicator endpoints were quantified. The optional elements for normalization and weighting were added to the analysis. Two reference values are used for normalizing the category indicator results. For the weighting step 8 recognized evaluation methods were selected with the aim to aggregate the LCI results to an overall value. The results enable plausible conclusions with regard to the ecological advantages and disadvantages of the use of each analysed emission control technology for heavy duty diesel vehicles. As no perfectly clear ranking can be distinguished for evaluation of the generated results and no correlation can be established to the economical effects of the corresponding measurements, it is necessary to complete the currently existing recommendation from the ISO/DIS-Standards with further parameters.The current case study was performed to determine and evaluate the environmental impacts, and to look for possible improvements in the production and distribution of a basic lager beer that is packed into multi-packs of glass battles. The life cycle investigated includes the stages from agricultural production up to the delivering of products to the shops, the consumption phase has been excluded. Raw water treatment and energy production and use have been included, and the contribution of different sub-systems inside of the life cycle to climate change, acidification, eutrophication, oxygen depletion and summer smog were assessed. The investigation resulted with several suggestions for improving the product and environmental performance of brewery.A qualitative, quantitative, and overall quality assessment of life cycle inventory is suggested. The method is composed of five indicators which
 are set up at three levels of the inventory quality: flows, processes, and the system. The method allows one to assess the reliability of the method generating inventory data (justness of data, completeness of data, representativity of processes, repeatability of system definition) and at the same time to quantify the uncertainty of the resulting data made under the data generation method. LCA practitioners can finally decide the overall inventory quality through the information for the acceptability of the inventory result comparing the objective of quality and the cost necessary to improve the quality. The operation of the method was verified in the application to the production of polyethylene bottles. The proposed method was also found applicable for the validation of data in the ISO's LCA data documentation format.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is increasingly becoming an important tool for ecological evaluation of products or processes. In this study the environmental impacts associated with the returnable and the non-returnable glass beer bottles were assessed in order to compare different reuse percentages. The inventory analysis is performed with data obtained from two Portuguese companies (a glass bottles producer and a brewery) and completed with the BUWAL database. It includes all operations associated with the bottles' manufacture, the brewery and the wastewater treatment plant. The environmental impact assessment considers both the potential ecological and ecotoxicological effects of the emissions. The environmental impact categories included and discussed in this study are the contribution to ecological and human health, global warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, acidification, eutrophication and photochemical ozone creation. The first category is divided into three subcategories that are human toxicity, critical air volume and critical water volume. This study was performed for several reuse percentages and returnable bottle cycles, and is comprised of a sensitivity analysis. The general output is that the relative importance of the impacts associated with the use of returnable and/or non-returnable bottles depends on the number of cycles performed by the returnable bottles. According to the impact index defined in this study, the most significant impacts are the eutrophication and the final solid wastes generated, and the least significant impact is the ozone depletion.Within a Life Cycle Assessment of the fuel supply and the operation of cars fueled by natural gas, diesel and gasoline, the impacts of airborne pollutants on human health were assessed in a spatially differentiated way. Country average impacts were used for secondary sulfate and nitrate aerosols. The use of country average impacts also turned out to be sufficient for the primary pollutants emitted from most processes of the fuel supply. For emissions of primary pollutants from the vehicles and from some processes of the fuel supply, the low to moderate emission height and the high local population density in urban areas needed to be taken into account. In these cases, the method of generic spatial classes presented in Part I was applied. The spatially differentiated impacts were compared with the results of a generic impact assessment based on average European damage factors. The generic impact assessment overestimates the human health impact of the fuel 
supply by about a factor of 2, since many of the upstream processes take place in very sparsely populated countries, and underestimates the impact of the primary particles emitted by the diesel cars in large cities by about a factor of 2.In life cycle impact assessment (LCIA), limited attention is generally given to a consistent inclusion of a fate analysis in the derivation of aquatic eutrophication potentials. This paper includes fate and potential effects in the calculation of aquatic eutrophication potentials of NH3 and NOx emitted to the air, N and P emitted to water, and N and P emitted to soil. These characterisation factors were calculated for the Netherlands, West-Europe and the world, respectively. Implementation in current LCIA practice is further facilitated by calculating normalisation scores for the Netherlands in 1997, West-Europe in 1995 and the world in 1990. Although the results presented may be a step forward, significant improvements are still needed in the assessment of pollutants causing aquatic eutrophication. In particular, the fate factors representing transport of NOs and NH3 air emissions via soils to the aquatic environment should be improved. In addition, differences in the biological availability of nutrients and differences in the sensitivity of aquatic environments should be included in the calculation of effect factors for aquatic eutrophication.'Design for Recycling' and dematerialization by enhancing the durability of products are major aspects of the quest for sustainable products. This article presents an LCA-based model for the integrated analyses of the product chain, its recycling systems, and its waste treatment systems at the 'End of Life' stage. The model is an extension of the EVR (Eco-costs/Value Ratio) model which has been published in this journal (Vogtlander et al. 2001), but can also be applied to other life cycle interpretation models, since the model as such is not restricted to the use of the eco-costs as a single indicator. The model has been developed to evaluate the design alternatives of complex products like buildings and cars. These products comprise several subsystems, each with its own special solution at the End of Life stage: Extending of the product life, object renovation, re-use of components, re-use of materials, useful application of waste materials, immobilization with and without useful applications, incineration with and without energy recovery, land fill. Since complex product systems always comprise a combination of these design alternatives, a methodology is given to calculate and allocate the eco-costs of the total system in order to select the best solution for sustainability. The methodology is characterized by: A main allocation model of the recycling flow based on physical relationships, a strict separation of the market value, the costs and the eco-costs in the system, a main allocation model for extension of lifetime based on 'depreciation of eco-costs', parallel to economic depreciation.This Life Cycle Interpretation Analysis describes the third phase of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for the implementation of emission control measures for the freight traffic with heavy duty vehicles (HDV) in Germany. It is based on the December 1999 edition of ISO/DIS 14043. Special emphasis was placed on the determination of the ecological effectiveness and the ecological 
category indicator effectiveness for each emission control scenario to compare the overall ecological-economical effect of the emission control measures investigated. Following these steps the main factors influencing the Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) results were identified. As a result of these analyses only a small number of influencing factors were detected having an influence on the LCIA result of more than 93%. Another result was the determination of the main influence factors from the different phases of the Product Life Cycle (PLC) of the selective catalytic reduction (SCR) system on the total weighting results of the bulk environmental load. The influence of the Life Cycle Inventory Analysis (LCI) results on the final Category Indicator Effectiveness result was analysed. The contribution of the different phases of the PLC of SCR systems on the total result of the LCI with regard to the bulk environmental load was determined. A completeness and sensitivity check was carried out. The results of the study enable plausible conclusions and recommendations, the absolutely essential one being the introduction of an consumption-optimized Diesel engine with SCR systems by the reference year 2005 for ecological and economical reasons.Regular (1988) and compact granular (1992, 1998) laundry detergents were compared on the basis of two distinct, complementary approaches: Environmental Risk Assessment and Life-Cycle Assessment. The results are presented in this paper and an accompanying paper in this volume (Part II: Life-Cycle Assessment). Exposure data from The Netherlands and Sweden were used for this retrospective analysis. The time period studied (1988-1998) spans many innovations in laundry detergents, one of which was the introduction of compact detergents. The aquatic risk assessment resulted in risk quotients below I for all detergent ingredients in both countries over the period studied. Furthermore, it showed that risk quotients decrease two to fivefold between 1988 and 1998 in each country due to the introduction of compact detergents. Slightly lower risk quotients were observed in Sweden, when compared to The Netherlands, attributable to the lower water hardness resulting in lower detergent usage per wash cycle in that country. If water hardnesses were equal, the outcome of the product risk assessments would also be the same in the two countries.Materials for energy sources, such as rechargeable batteries and fuel cells, are functional materials. Their development presents special challenges since they are designed for more than one function and must satisfy multiple and mostly interlocking requirements. A unique combination of properties is achievable in complex structures such as functional composites, multi-element and multiphase intermetallics, cermets, layered insertion compounds, and new nanostructured and disordered phases. This review deals with a variety of such materials being developed for use in clean energy storage, which is mostly, but not entirely, hydrogen energy storage. The scope of the work encompasses hydrogen gas storage alloys and intermetallics used for electrochemical hydrogen storage, insertion compounds for Li batteries, and ceramics and metal catalysts for fuel cells. It also includes materials used in lead-acid, nickel metal hydride, and lithium rechargeable batteries as well as in solid oxide, p
roton exchange membrane, and direct methanol fuel cells. Special topics highlight new nanostructured materials obtained by rapid quenching, mechanical alloying, and other processes, The review is complemented by a brief discussion of present trends in assessment of materials requirements for batteries and fuel cells for electric vehicles and portable telecommunication. Also addressed are aspects of recycling and life-cycle analysis.A computational tool has been developed for the environmental evaluation of building designs. Construction and operation of buildings is a major cause of resource depletion and environmental pollution. Computational performance evaluation tools can support the decision making in the area of environmentally responsive building design and play an important role in environmental impact assessment, especially when a life-cycle assessment approach is used. For comprehensive environmental impact analysis to be realized in a computational support tool for the building design domain, such tools must have the following three characteristics: (1) An analysis method that considers the life cycle of building construction, operation, and decommissioning; (2) a representation that is able to accommodate the data and computability requirements of the analysis method and tool; and (3) be integrated within a multiaspect design analysis environment that can provide data on environmentally relevant building operation criteria. This paper describes a computational tool, ECOLOGUE, developed in response to these requirements. However, limitations remain in terms of data availability and the precision of the environmental impact assessment methods.According to UK Government surveys, concern for the environment is growing, Environmental regulation of the industry is becoming wider in its scope and tougher in its implementation. Various techniques are available to assess how the industry can drive down its environmental impact and comply with environmental regulation. Environmental Assessments (EA) required by European law do not cover the whole life cycle of the project that they are analysing. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) was developed to assess the environmental loadings of a product, process or activity over its entire life cycle. It was the first technique used in environmental analysis that adopted what was described as a holistic approach, It fails this approach by not assessing accidental emissions or environmental impacts other than those that are direct. Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) offers the opportunity to value environmental effects and appraise a project on the basis of costs and benefits. Not all environmental effects can be valued and of those that can there is considerable uncertainty in their valuation and occurrence. CBA cannot satisfactorily measure the total environmental risk of a project. Consequently there is a need for a technique that overcomes the failures of project-level EA, LCA and CBA, and assesses total environmental risk. Many organizations such as, the British Medical Association, the European Oilfield Speciality Chemicals Association, the Royal ministry of Petroleum and Energy (Norway) and Shell Expro now recognize that a holistic approach is an integral part of assessing total risk. The Brent SPAR case study highlights the interdisciplinary nature required of any environmental analysis. Holistic Environm
ental Assessment is recommended as such an environmental analysis. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessments (LCAs) are used to evaluate the environmental impacts attributable to products and processes. For construction projects, LCAs can be used to assess the pollution associated with the manufacture of building materials for the construction process, but many upstream processes are excluded. Input-output analysis is subject to inherent errors when applied to the LCA of specific products. This paper proposed a hybrid LCA method for construction for comprehensive assessment.Principles of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) are implemented for the investigation of the Estonian oil shale energy production system. The energy produced on the smallest of Estonia's thermal power plants is studied as a product. A brief description of the inventory analysis and material balance for this product system is presented. A possible change in water management of investigated life cycle is discussed. Implementing these suggestions will diminish the pressure on local water resources in an economically effective way.To select the most appropriate pavement design for a given situation, it is necessary to understand how the pavement properties and in-service conditions relate to performance and life cycle cost. A given design may be most appropriate on one type of road and least appropriate on another type of road. This design selection is further complicated by the advent of new design methodologies, materials, and construction delivery techniques. Life cycle economic analysis is an important tool for comparing alternative treatment strategies. A life cycle analysis can use a deterministic approach, which incorporates a single point value, or it can use a probabilistic approach, which includes a mean, variance, and probability distribution. The probabilistic approach is better suited to describing the uncertainty associated with engineering. The Canadian Strategic Highway Research Program Canadian Long-Term Pavement Performance database and data provided by the Ministry of Transportation of Ontario were used in this analysis. Most construction variables are generally believed to be best described by a normal distribution. However, a lognormal probability distribution is better suited to describing these variables. This best fit is based on both a mathematical examination and a comparison of similar variables such as stocks and real estate values. It is also shown that thickness is a probabilistic variable that should be combined with the cost and incorporated into pavement life cycle costing. Ignoring the lognormal nature of these variables introduces bias into a life cycle cost analysis and does not reflect the true overall cost.Due to the anticipated high economical relevance of polytronics (low cost, high volume, high innovation rates, short product life, exploding diversity of products), the application of life-cycle engineering is required at an early stage of material and process development. The environmental effects of polytronics are highly variable depending as well on the stage of product life (material production, product assembly, use, and end of life) as on the type of the materials. Because of the expected widespread use of polymers in mobile products, for these materials an environmental assessment is necessary to get
 further criteria for the selection. The high complexity of life-cycle assessment using conventional methods is demonstrated exemplary for the production of epoxy resin, a versatile pre-product for many applications. Because ecological assessment is the key for improvement and optimization, a simplified methodology for the regarded complex products and processes is essential. EE-Toolbox provides a screening method developed especially for electronic products, based on the material content. As the polymer materials up to now are only considered according to their content of certain additives, a new tool for environmental screening assessment of these materials is introduced. With regard to the need of CO2 reduction and energy preservation, characteristic values of incineration are used for rating. It is assumed, that thermal pretreatment is a major disposal pathway particularly for future mobile products. The environmental impact of polymer materials is expected to be much lower compared to the impact heavy metals and their compounds. Thus, expectations are high for the environmental benefit of polytronics, but further examinations are necessary.Disassembly factories provide new environmental and economic options for a sustainable cycle economy. This paper presents results indicating high ecological benefits that may be realized with the disassembly of complex products and re-use of its components. However, the economical side of disassembly has to be presented too, because these ecological benefits cannot be obtained for free. The results are part of the scientific research of the collaborative research center 281 Disassembly Factories, supported by the Deutsche Forschlangsgemeinschaft and carried out at the Berlin University of Technology. The aim of the research center is to develop strategies and technologies that enable the automatic disassembly of consumer goods. To estimate the ecological effects of industrial disassembly, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used as the adequate instrument The evaluation of the complex material and energy flows shows clear ecological benefits of the disassembly land re-use) compared to traditional ways of waste treatment i.e. disposal. On the other hand the analysis of the disassembly-costs shows, that the more ecological way of waste-treatment is also the more cost-effective way. However, the calculations for the designed disassembly system indicate that it might yet be possible to build and operate a disassembly factory without deficit.It is well known that most decisions that effect the end-of-life disposal and recycling of a product are made during the product design phase. The premise of a Design for Environment (DfE) approach is that product designers will evaluate and improve their designs from an environmental perspective. Our survey of designers indicates they are typically overburdened with product functionality and cost reduction objectives. This more or less eliminates any serious DtE analysis, particularly in small and medium sized companies. There is therefore a need for DfE tools that require minimal user input and hence can be nm automatically in the shadow of the design process. At MERC we are involved in the development of such a suite of tools, which evaluate several life-cycle analysis dimensions simultaneously. In this paper we present DfD-Compact a design tool that evaluates disasse
mbly complexity and material recyclability. The only input data required by this tool is readily extracted from common CAD programs. Specifically, this data includes a part relationship tree, part weight, and part material composition. All other data is stored in standardized libraries. The CAD file data does not typically include all the data required to make a detailed analysis. We have developed a procedure that is able to use this core data to estimate other product data and then combine this with the library data to generate a reliable DfD-Ratio. This Ratio evaluates the product in three dimensions: (i) material separation and: recyclability, (ii) unfastening difficulty, and (iii) disassembly accessibility. The DfD-Ratio is measured on an open-ended scale starting from zero, with zero indicating the worst case. The higher the ratio the better the design. This ratio can be used by the designer to compare design alternatives, improve the design, and/or meet minimum DfE objectives. The procedure is illustrated by an example.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has become a standard tool for analyzing environmental effects of products and processes. In addition, companies are requested to report product stewardship information to customers. However, performing Life Cycle Inventories (LCI) and collecting product stewardship information is expensive. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems are widely used to plan, organize, direct, measure, and, control logistics, financial and human resources of organizations. Meanwhile, ERP systems are also prepared-to register environmental management information, such as weights of raw materials and supplies, use of energy and water. ERP systems include much product and-process related information needed for performing Life Cycle Inventories, such as bill of material and work orders. The paper describes how an LCI on a product can be compiled using the ERP system SAP R/3. In addition, allocation methods for supplies on a product level are demonstrated with support from an ERP system. As an example the paper demonstrates how an LCI of an electric product of an automotive supplier was performed using the system SAP R/3. Finally, the paper summarizes the benefits: and costs of the use of ERP systems-for LCI qualitatively.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Design for the Environment Program is conducting an industry-wide environmental life-cycle assessment of cathode ray tube (CRT) and liquid crystal display (LCD) computer monitors. Preliminary results are presented for 16 environmental impact categories that show the relative difference in life-cycle impacts for the CRT and LCD. Considering the entire life cycle of each monitor, global warming and water eutrophication impacts were greater for the LCD while all other impact categories (e.g., resource use, energy, ozone depletion, landfill space use, etc.) were greater for the CRT. Energy inputs for CRT glass manufacturing data, for which there was relatively low confidence in the data, drive many of the CRT impacts. When comparing the manufacturing stages of each monitor type, the LCD has more relative burdens on the environment than does the CRT. Using these study results can allow industry to begin focusing on where environmental improvements can be made.The use of an Integrated Circuits (IC's) is continually increasing in any kind of industrial produc
ts and in particular in the Electronic and Information and Communications Technology products. The environmental impact related to the use and production phases of the TC's could be potentially very strong due to the high technological level of the process, the amount of energy and the special materials used for their realization, The aim of this study is to evaluate the environmental impact of an TC during its production and use phases basing on the Life Cycle Assessment (ICA) methodology. In fact the LCA is a useful tool to quantify the environmental impact. An E-PROM IC has been chosen as a representative device for its technological complexity and its large diffusion in the market. Front-end. and Back-end technological steps have been analyzed in detail The energy and the fixed consumables (gases, chemicals,...,) used in the fab have been related to the number of masks. The number of the masking steps is an indicator of process complexity. The data inventory has been obtained from detailed technological analysis, from information obtained directly from material suppliers and from the commercial data base. The IC process makes: large use of de-ionized water (DI), The reclaim of DI Wafer and other materials is important in order to reduce the total environmental impact. The fetal inventory for a single E-PROM chip has been obtained. The same approach can be extended to other types of IC's.supporting the industry in the design process, the approach described in this paper provides a real Design for Environment (DfE), including cost aspects. The basis for this form of DfE are the experiences and the data gained in numberless Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Life Cycle Engineering (LCE) studies as well as know how in applying generic modeling, simulations and scenario analysis. The method of Life Cycle Costing (LCC) helps to implement economic aspects, which are often the main important aspects in industrial decision making. The goal is to bring environmental and economic considerations in harmony in respect to a sustainable development. LCE/LCA data and experiences shall be used for DfE to objectify the results, by using these scientific proven methods, It will be applied and further developed on examples within the 'Active Disassembly using Smart Materials' (ADSM) project. The goals of this project is the demonstration of the feasibility of providing a nondestructive, cost effective, self disassembly system for industry with the smart material device. Within the consumer electronics sector, existing state of the art products without smart materials are analyzed using LCA and LCC; A subsequent analysis with redesigned products consisting of embedded 'Shape Memory Alloy' (SMA) and 'Shape Memory Polymers' (SMP) devices is conducted. As a final stage the analysis will be completed with assessed results and: will be included in the activity of redesign for further product development.Environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) must be integrated into design systems to achieve continuous improvement in the environmental performance of products. This will provide the designer feedback on the lifecycle environmental impacts of an evolving design, emphasizing material, process of form substitution to decrease environmental impact. The New Jersey Institute of Technology (NJIT) has developed a prototype design for environment (DFE) and environmental L
CA software tool that interfaces with Pro/Engineer (a CAD tool developed by Parametric Technology Corporation) to extract product description and bill of materials data in order to conduct an environmental LCA inventory analysis. The inventory analysis is modeled to account for materials flows, energy usage, and environmental burdens such as air emissions and hazardous materials, as well as costs associated with the product life cycle. Environmental impact assessment of the inventory analysis and interpretation of the results are performed with EcoPro, a universal lifecycle metric developed at Lucent Technologies that can provide the designer quantified feedback on environmental performance and sustainability in the form of single indicators for resource productivity (RP) and eco-efficiency (EE). Working in partnership, Lucent Technologies and the NJIT Multi-Lifecycle Engineering Research Center conducted an evaluation on two different circuit pack faceplate designs. Pro/Engineer files representing a proposed "two-shot" molded thermoplastic faceplate and a current metal (aluminum) assembly design were evaluated using the NJIT software tool and EcoPro. Results for RP and EE of the two designs and comparison of cost data demonstrate the benefits of the proposed design as well as the advantages of using this approach to evaluate alternative designs, construction, processes and materials. By integrating environmental LCA and EcoPro into product design systems, efforts to extend Des for (X) metrics to include the environment have been formalized in a strategy that gives designers timely feedback on the lifecycle impact of an evolving design. We believe that the results of this evaluation demonstrate an approach that provides a practical basis for improved design operational efficiencies and environmental performance and for generating business value in terms of reduced total cost of ownership.In the new economic situation many high-tech enterprises' strategic alliances come forth. This paper discusses the life cycle of high-tech enterprises' strategic alliance, their characteristic in each phase and the cause of the difference between the life cycle of alliance and that of enterprise.Life cycle assessments (LCAs) are used to evaluate the environmental impacts attributable to products and processes. For construction projects, LCAs can be used to assess the pollution associated with the manufacture of building materials for the construction process, but many upstream processes are excluded. Input-output analysis is subject to inherent errors when applied to the LCA of specific products. This paper proposed a hybrid LCA method for construction for comprehensive assessment.Knowledge-Based Corporation, as a new organizational form, has its own features during the period of growth. The paper gives a brief introduction to the features of Knowledge-Based Corporation, and analyzes the features and aberrance of each stage of life cycle in Knowledge-Based Corporation.Considerable progress has been made during the past thirty years toward a more complete understanding of design and construction requirements for "healthy" buildings. Buildings are now being built with available technology that consume only 10% to 25% of the energy consumed in today's average buildings while being more comfortable, healthier for their occupants, and less harmful to the envir
onment. Awareness of environmental problems has shifted design and construction toward socalled "green" or "sustainable" building practices, yet there is scarce evidence that such practices actually produce less overall environmental damage. Very limited attention to rigorous analysis of buildings' actual impacts has resulted in the establishment and increasingly widespread acceptance of many purportedly "green" practices of undetermined environmental impact. Dissemination and adoption of advanced building practices require overcoming resistances of habit and opposition from vested interests. Methods are being developed and tested that can provide more evidence-based decisions for improving buildings' overall environmental performance, but much improvement is still needed.The environmental performance of selected biofuels has been evaluated compared to the fossil fuels most likely to substitute using a life cycle approach. The comparisons investigated were: (a) sunflower seed oil methyl ester (SME) versus fossil diesel fuel for transportation; (b) wheat straw versus heating oil and natural gas for district heating and (c) biogas from liquid swine manure versus natural gas for combined heat and power production. According to the results, the production and use of all biofuels under study may contribute to net savings both in greenhouse gas emissions and fossil fuel consumption. Additionally, all biofuels may contribute to the reduction of photochemical smog with the exception of wheat straw when it substitutes heating oil. Concerning acidification and eutrophication all biofuels appeared slightly disadvantageous compared to their fossil counterparts.A new approach to environmental decision-making is explored. Essentially it consists of a decision support system based on the combined use of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS). As a consequence, decision-making is carried out taking into account site-dependent issues concerning the entire life cycle of the system under study. The advantages in environmental decision-making are that we can combine the holistic view of LCA with the visualization power of GIS. Photovoltaic systems and solid waste landfilling are discussed as case studies for implementing this approach. For both cases we address the current environmental concerns and we provide decision support according to the main observations and targets of each application.Liquid Hydrogen is the only known fuel suitable for aircraft to be produced from renewable energy and offering extremely low emissions (zero CO2, very low NOx). Use of Liquid Hydrogen can: eliminate the dependency of aviation upon dwindling crude oil resources; eliminate, or at least reduce dramatically, the contribution of aviation to the anthropogenic greenhouse effect. The CRYOPLANE project shall provide a comprehensive analysis of the complex interrelated aspects, the feasibility of safety and environmental compatibility. It shall produce technical solutions and tools and indicate possible strategies for Europe for a smooth transition to the new fuel. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of kerosene is the first step for comparing the environmental impacts with those from different production chains of hydrogen fuel. A complete and accurate identification and quantification of air emissions, water effluents, and other life-cycle inputs and outputs
 has been performed. The environmental performance of kerosene that has been determined by the LCA study will be used as a reference point for the evaluation of hydrogen as an aviation fuel.In Finland, in late 90'ies, studies to limit and solve the thaw-deformation problem of pavements were carried out. one problem was to determine the start of thaw-weakening and the end of thaw in time. Another problem was to describe the development of effective stresses in a thawing and thawed subgrade with reference to development of resilient stiffness of the subgrade. Further, testing on development of irreversible deformations (surface rutting) was carried out and analysed. Further, measurement data on development of subgrade modulus during thaw on a road line over more than 10 years was collected and analysed. The resilient stiffness of the pavement can be used for estimating the cracking of the asphalt surface. Knowing the ratio between irreversible and reversible deformations, the rate of rutting can be estimated, too. These can be applied in life-cycle analysis of a pavement structure on thawing, frost-susceptible subgrades.Thinking in terms of product life cycles is one of the challenges facing manufacturers today: efforts to increase efficiency throughout the life cycle do not only mean extended responsibility of the parties concerned. Economically successful business areas can also be explored. Whether new service concepts are required, new regulations have been passed or consumer values are changing, the differences between business areas are disappearing. Life cycle management (LCM) considers the product life cycle as a whole and optimizes the interaction of product design, manufacturing and life cycle activities. The goal of this approach is to protect resources and maximize effectiveness by means of life cycle assessment, product data management, technical support and, last but not least, life cycle costing. This paper shows the existing approaches of LCM and discusses their prospects and further development.Industrial experience shows that many current eco-design methods, such as life cycle assessment (LCA), are very complex and cannot easily be used by designers. Such methods are primarily useful during detail design, when major design decisions have already been taken. Simplified, easy-to-use methods and tools for designers, such as eco-indicators, to be used during: early design phases in product concept development, are therefore being developed. Examples of simple eco-indicators are recycling quotas, energy consumption, amount of material used and waste produced. Company-, business area- or product family-specific eco-indicators could be derived, using aggregations of commercially available and company-specific LCA data, combined with product user profiles and production process data. Irrelevant data can then be omitted. The reuse of eco-indicators should be justified in evolutionary product development, characterized by marginal improvements. The range of application and validity has to be specified carefully though. A generalized and simple set of eco-indicators would not be possible. Indicators for design should be defined for a specific purpose and several aspects must be considered. In this paper, a structured overview of various types of eco-indicator will be presented, in order to guide management, designers and other stakeh
olders in the selection of suitable eco-indicators to be used in product development.The paper describes the requirements of product designers concerning methods for environmental evaluation. It argues that indicators can be used for rough environmental evaluations and presents experience gained with the indicator-based Oil Point Method (OPM). This method is illustrated by means of three examples: a vacuum cleaner, two sweaters and a passenger car. The quality of the results is compared with two other methods for environmental evaluation.Today's industrial enterprises are operating in a turbulent field of activity. Technical aspects as well as the international markets determine the production activities. The permanent monitoring and adaptation of the manufacturing and service processes help to master these constraints. Demands regarding efficiency and quality of modern manufacturing systems are further increasing. Producers of manufacturing systems are responsible for supporting a more robust operation and observing regulations and restrictions during the life cycle stages of the system. Life cycle management (LCM) considers the product life cycle as a whole and optimizes the interaction of the product design and the life cycle activities. To this end, the protection of resources and the effectiveness during use is maximized by means of product data management (PDM), technical support, simulation and, last but not least, life cycle evaluation methods such as life cycle costing (LCC) and life cycle assessment (LCA).Industry is increasingly being confronted with the need to consider the whole life cycle effects of its products, in order to make environmental improvements of any significance. There is a danger that naive environmental decisions are made, due to apparent lack of data or actual lack of insight. This paper describes a case study, where a class of students was presented with a product from the Danish company, Danfoss A/S, and given the task of carrying out an initial environmental evaluation of the product. This evaluation consisted of both a "life cycle check" and an exercise where the students were to "read" the environment out of the product, in order to systematically, quickly and efficiently come to some design recommendations for the company. The phrases "LCA" and "product life thinking" will be described and differentiated and a pattern identified for their cooperative effect in use.The demand for designing environment-conscious products, "green-products" in other words, is ever increasing. Fujitsu thus has developed and started application of a three-dimensional virtual product simulator called "FJVPS/Eco Design," that works in closer cooperation with three-dimensional CAD, to support an environment-conscious design at the design stage. Four functions of Eco Design among extended functions of FJVPS/Eco Design especially contribute to shortening man-hour of environmental conscious design process. The four functions are: 1) LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) evaluation support at the design stage, 2) verification of product disassembling, 3) calculation of a recyclable rate in accordance with environmental law in Japan, and 4) calculation of the total amount of toxic or controlled substance content. These four functions of "FJVPS/Eco Design " are explained in this paper.Obtaining the life cycle inventories (LCI) required for lif
e cycle assessment (LCA) is often too expensive to be of use, as data is difficult to obtain and the amount of data is considerably high. Integrating LCA into the design process can only be achieved by automating the extraction of LCI-relevant product data. Product models, that are used in product design, contain information relevant to the LCI and enabling structured access to that data reduces the amount of work for the LCA analyst by a voiding repeated determination and input of LCI data (data redundancy). This paper introduces a framework,for a structured data retrieval in an LCA context through the use of feature technology. In a product model, that includes a feature model, information on design features (e.g. geometry, dimensions) and manufacturing properties (e.g. material used, machining process applied) are included, Structured and efficient access to the LCI relevant data can be realized by a dedicated application program interface (API) bridging the gap between an LCA program and the product model. The characteristics and basic functionality, of the API are described and the advantages of using an API are discussed. The basic idea of the framework is illustrated with a designed part.The authors have proposed a new life-cycle design system specifically applicable to machined parts. The system automatically generates life-cycle assessment (LCA) feedback for the design process through the effective linkage of life-cycle inventory data with computer-aided design/manufacturing (CAD/CAM) data by feature-based modeling. The system is described, and through application to the environmental impact assessment of a mold-machined product, is shown to clearly reflect the change in environmental impact as a result of changes to aspects of the machining process. Specifically, the use of minimum quantities of lubricant system instead of conventional lubrication is shown to reduce the overall environmental impact of the product. By evaluating the machining process in detail, this system provides highly useful information that can he used to involve the machining process, representing a valuable aid to the life-cycle assessment if machined products.In the early phases of the product life cycle, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is recently used to support the decision-making for the conceptual product design and the best alternative can be selected based on its estimated LCA and its benefits. Both the lack of detailed information and time for a full LCA for a various range of design concepts need the new approach for the environmental analysis. This paper suggests a novel approximate LCA methodology for the conceptual design stage by grouping products according to their environmental characteristics and by mapping product attributes into impact driver index. The relationship is statistically verified by exploring the correlation between total impact indicator and energy impact category. Then a neural network approach is developed to predict an approximate LCA of grouping products in conceptual design. Trained learning algorithms for the known characteristics of existing products will quickly give the result of LCA for new design products. The training are generalized by using product attributes for an ID in a group as well as another product attributes for another IDs in other groups. The neural network model with back propagation algorithm is used a
nd the results are compared with those of multiple regression analysis. The proposed approach does not replace the full LCA but it would give some useful guidelines for the design of environmentally conscious products in conceptual design phase.Ericsson is currently performing a life cycle assessment on its third generation wireless telecommunication systems. The methodology applied uses ISO 14040-series as a framework, but due to the complexity of the studied systems, a number of methodological matters have been necessary to consider. A hierarchical model has been used to model the systems, and a special view on sites has been applied. Preliminary findings about the different life stages of the system are presented, and the importance of including non-production activities like research and development in LCA studies of telecommunication systems is discussed. The functional unit of a telecommunication system is also discussed, along with some major difficulties and uncertainties in the study.Goal of the study is the ecological comparison between ceramic and epoxy based populated Printed Wiring Boards (PWB). All relevant differences of the product systems are taken into consideration. The approach of Generic Modules is applied to manage the complex product models. Despite of the aggregated environmental profiles the method offers the opportunity to provide transparent results regarding an acceptable time effort for conducting a study. Generic Modules offer the link between Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Design for Environment (DfE). The paper will demonstrate-based on the description of the different criteria of LCA and DfE- how Generic Modules allow the implementation of the information and results of a LCA into the modular structure of DfE. This will be exemplary shown on two examples an epoxy based PWB and a ceramic based hybrid.LCA (Life Cycle Assessment), which can assess the environmental aspect and potential impact associated with a product "from the cradle to the grave " synthetically, has become noteworthy The software "MieLCA", which can be operated easily, on the personal computer to conduct LCA-NETS (Numerical Eco-Load Total Standardization) was composed by, employing LCA method "ESS" (Eco-Load Standardization System) proposed by, the authors group. The assessment of various kinds of the industrial products can be performed applying "MieLCA". On the other hand, the Vending Machine has something to do with the environment in a sane extent with the other industrial products. At this time, in addition to conducting such assessment, the ecological improvement was performed taking account of the concept of re-use etc. As a case study, the evaluation of environmental performance of vending machine will be discussed detail in this paper.Recently, the design for disassemblability/recyclability becomes more important from the viewpoint of Life Cycle Assessment or Emission-Minimum. Therefore, a disassembly support system which can be applied to the design considering reuse/recycle is developed. First, an algorithm for verifying disassemblability of parts is briefly explained. Next, a method for estimate the total number of feasible disassembly sequences without actually generating them is proposed. Furthermore, in order to reduce the number of disassembly sequences, precedence constraints such as the assembly feature are introduced. Fi
nally, the efficiency of our developed disassembly sequence generation system is demonstrated and it is shown that the design can be evaluated from the viewpoint of disassemblability/recyclability by using our system.Concerning information about the environment, it has become indispensable to grasp relevant data from the viewpoint of LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) in order to meet the growing social demand for environmental protection and measure the effects of intracompany, environmental conservation activity,. In order to respond to those issues properly, the Ricoh Group is building what it calls "Environmental Impact Information System" which makes it possible to quantitatively, grasp the eco-balance in the entire sphere of the Group business activity, so that it can he used in the environmental management the Group aims to practice.This paper presents a simple life cycle assessment method by, using neural network technique during the product conceptual design stage. The designer can use this method to forecast the data of life cycle assessment of a new product for reducing environmental impact. Details of neural network model and two product examples will be described in this paper to illustrate the capabilities of proposed method.Environmental impact is assessed for various kinds of information technology (IT) systems. The life cycle assessment (LCA) concept was developed for IT systems to attain LCA for IT systems. The life cycle stages of IT systems were defined as design, construction, operation and disposal stages. Environmental load evaluation for Internet shopping systems showed that both an Internet bookstore and Internet software shop made the amount of carbon dioxide (CO,) emission decrease. The reduction effect for the software shop was found to be larger than that for the bookstore. In classifying various kinds of IT systems according to their environmental aspects, the systems were classified into three categories: "dematerialization", "waste avoidance" and "performance improvement". The classifications for 32 systems, including 19 systems we evaluated, were found to be related to the reduction rate of the CO2 emission amount obtained when the systems were introduced. Dematerialization systems showed a particularly large effect on CO2 emission reduction.For the purpose of discussing the current situation of resource consumption and environmental loading in grains supply system, a preliminary case study of life cycle analysis for grains production and transportation process both in Japan and Heilongjiang province of China is examined. In the paper, attempts are made to calculate energy consumption and CO2 emission throughout the life cycle of grain (wheat, rice, maize and bean) productions and transportations, which will provide basic data to evaluate the current situation of grains supply system. As results of the examination, including data collection and compiling, the energy consumption and CO2 emission in grains supply system in Japan (3.9MJ/kg, in average of four grains, the same as the follows) is around twice as large as those in China (2.1MJ/kg), Although, the difference between energy consumption in production stage in Japan (2.5MJ/kg) and that in China (2.0MJ/kg) is small, quite large difference between energy consumption in transportation stage in Japan (1.4MJ/kg) and that in China (0.1MJ/kg) is found.Industrial E
cology is a new field of environment. It bases on the Industrial Sustainability. Firstly, we discuss the Industrial Situation in Vietnam because our Industrial Sustainability isn't good and may be untied. We assess sonic kinds of industries, what they release and their effects to our environment. Then, we show the policies of government for protecting damaged environment. After an extensive discussion of the concept of Industrial Ecology in Vietnam, the report will describe and illustrate the results of a field study about Vietnamese companies experiencing with Environmental Management Systems, Life Cycle Assessment, Eco-Labeling and so on. Vietnamese companies wonder if they join into these standards what they will catch inter-organization co-operation in the field of environment or if there are cognitive or organizational barriers that hinder the development of Industrial Ecology in general. We also discuss the policies of our decided government and lay out some solutions to improve environmental situation in Vietnam greener and greener. We also lay out some solution to improve our environmental situation and how government control and treat environment-law-broken companies. If they don't obey the law, authorities will take them to "black book", at that time their companies may be closed or buyers won't purchase their products. In the other hand, they will be come to ''green book". We think that if this principle is put into application in all over the world, our environment will be better.The development of a background database, which will be used for the LCI analysis, it-as carried out in respect of 83 process data concerning 29 kinds of chemicals. The mass balance of carbon, hydrogen, chlorine nitrogen, and oxygen was taken on input and output of process data, and process data, which adjusted the mass balance, was developed. Using developed inventory data, the effect of allocation method on the CO., emission was compared. It is clear that the difference of the allocation method is influenced in the inventory, data, And it is necessary, to set up the standard method when the weight of product changes by the concentration of product. In addition to it, process data of xylene, toluene and benzene produced by the BTX extraction was discussed for the developed database of LCI. Considering the purpose of this present chemical process, the allocation, which is suitable for the put-pose of the object process, should be adopted to the inventory, data, which reflect the products value. It is suggest that when the inventory, data is developed, setting of standard allocation method and clarification of the method to the users are very important.A working group of the Society of Chemical Engineers of Japan (SCEJ) attempted to propose a new design concept for chemical products by analyzing and investigating chemical industries, recent development of computer science and life cycle assessment method. The keys of the proposed concept are the first to introduce multi-recycle system for the individual chemical product and the second to introduce computer science to design the product from the molecular level, taking into account not only its function but also recycability.Multiple perspectives are presented on failure-event-chain analysis and failure cause categorization followed by description of a systems engineering framework for failure evaluatio
n. The framework consists of engineering and organizational elements typically within the program manager span of control. The systems engineering lens is then used to evaluate 50 space system failures. The high level mapping of failure attributes (causal root structure) indicates the need for across the board systems engineering rigor. That is, failure can propagate from virtually every critical activity in a space system life cycle. Analysis results show strong implication of design, design verification & test, manufacturing/production, and manufacturing/production verification & test as recurrent causal factors in space system failures. The Failure Space perspective reminds one of the need for thorough and complete risk management and assurance process implementation over the life of a project as well as, increased emphasis on lessons learned and recurrent monitoring of critical process fidelity.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is used as a basis to compare fjord-crossing options with respect to selected environmental parameters. Three types of crossings are compared; bridge, tunnel and ferry. Environmental parameters in focus are electricity consumption, fossil fuel consumption and emissions of CO2 and NOx to air.The future of the lead industry and of others facing similar challenges depends to a significant degree on their ability to develop and implement appropriate strategies and means to argue their environmental case and manage their environmental effects. These strategies and means need to be significantly more 'holistic' and integrated than previously. MIM Holdings, Ltd., an Australian-owned international company, and Britannia Refined Metals, Ltd., a United Kingdom-based metal-refining company in the MIM group, have sponsored an environmental assessment of their refined primary lead products. A major output from this research is an integrated series of environmental life-cycle assessment-based models with multiple foci, ranging from the whole 'cradle-to-gate' life-cycle to the individual process. From these models environmental inventories and potential environmental impacts may be calculated with relative ease. The technical, methodological and epistemological uncertainties inherent in such modelling necessitate that their potential influence be assessed and incorporated in any assertions that may be made. Graphs of selected inventories and potential impacts are presented and the interpretations are accompanied by such assessments. Finally, conclusions are drawn on the benefits and limitations of such modelling and assessment approaches, as well as on areas for further development.Issues of sustainability, being economy, ecology and equity (social issues) require a paradigm shift. The reserves of fossil fuel are limited, consequently the days of cheap oil are coming to an end. Secondly, there is mounting evidence for climate change due to greenhouse gases and thirdly, oil is coming from politically unstable areas. All told, we do have to move in a much more decisive manner heading in the direction of using much less energy and developing renewables. The paper illustrates briefly what can be done in order to enhance fuel economy of cars and continues with data about life cycle analysis of different fuels, from well-to-wheel for fuel cell powered cars. Last but not least legislation is briefly touched illustrating what can be done w
ithout fuel economy legislation and where it might be needed.This article presents a proposal of methodology for conducting such research and development. The data/statistics waste collection statistics phase must cover geographical distribution, seasonal variations on production rates, waste management practices, current applications and their related costs and revenues. Waste characterisation must be comprehensive with physical, environmental and chemical aspects, including waste variability and waste contamination from shipping, handling and storage activities. Based on the previous results a broad forecast of potential applications must be developed based on very simple rules like minimisation of transportation distances and energy consumption; etc. Marketing evaluation is a very important step, frequently neglected when choosing the best applications for a particular waste. Other steps are product development and performance evaluation. Environmental evaluation of the new technology is very important because not all recycling is environmentally sound. This evaluation must be based on the life cycle assessment (LCA) and has to consider the environmental benefit of avoiding landfill disposal of the waste, and could include leaching or other specific tests or simulations. Also, the technological transference phase must be carefully planned and developed. Each proposed step is discussed, examples are given and needs for further research emphasised. (C) 2001 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.A two-stage study "Life cycle analysis of road construction and earthworks" was part of a, more extensive Finnish research project "Assessment of the applicability of secondary products in earthworks". In the first stage of this work a life-cycle impact assessment procedure for the comparison and evaluation of alternative road and earth constructions was developed. Additionally, a database containing the environmental burdens of the most significant construction materials and unit operations was constructed. In order to evaluate the applicability of the procedure, the use of coal ash, crushed concrete waste and granulated blast-furnace slag in road construction was evaluated in case studies. The use of these secondary products was also compared with the use of natural materials in corresponding applications. The aim of the second stage was to transfer the assembled data for utilisation as a practical model by creating an inventory analysis program to calculate and compare the life cycle impacts of the most common road constructions and foundation engineering methods. The data obtained in the first stage was also augmented to the extent necessary for this purpose. The results of case studies indicate that the production and transport of the materials used in road constructions produce the most significant environmental burdens. Production of the bitumen and cement, crushing of materials and transport of materials are the most energy consuming single life-cycle stages of the construction. A large part of the emissions to atmosphere originates from energy production. In the expert assessment, consumption of natural materials and leaching behaviour were also regarded as being of great significance. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The various emissions to water, air and soil from the municipal wastewater treatment plant of Avedore Wastew
ater Service Company are accounted for and quantified in terms of the environmental impacts to which they contribute: global warming, acidification, eutrophication, space demand for controlled deposition of residues, as well as persistent toxicity, human toxicity and eco-toxicity. The impacts are expressed on the same scale, namely as fraction of the total per capita loads in a national scenario 1990, also called the person equivalent or PE1990. This provides a compact and informative overview of the environmental impacts and allows for a holistic prioritisation in the operation and management of the plant. The accounting shows that the resulting emissions per person in the catchment area of the plant correspond to 0.5-5.0% of the average Danish PE1990 for the impacts in question.The role of biosolids management continues to gain priority in terms of holistic waste management/reuse, Recommended options should lead to simple and safe management alternatives that stress reclamation of resources. This paper addresses current sustainability strategies, priorities and future direction of waste management as it relates to residuals and in particular to sludges/biosolids. Sludge management and resource recovery approaches must be diversified and flexible. They should be based on actual needs of the affected society and community. It is also important that the chosen strategy be appropriate to the conditions of the site under consideration. Processes which promote sustainability will become viable options for resource management if conversion into a "value-added product" can be realized.To enable decision makers to select sustainable wastewater treatment systems, insight into the sustainability of a wide variety of systems should be provided in a transparent way leaving room for adaptation and interpretation according to the local situation. To provide this insight a structured methodology comparing wastewater treatment systems with respect to sustainability is defined. Similar to life cycle assessment (LCA) three phases can be distinguished: (I)goal and scope definition, (2) inventory analysis, and (3) optimisation and results. In the goal and scope definition we set the system boundaries to include most of the water cycle and part of the food cycle. Furthermore, we defined a multi-disciplinary set of sustainability indicators including technical. economic, environmental, and socio-cultural aspects. In the inventory analysis these sustainability indicators are quantified using simple static models of wastewater unit operations. Selection of unit operations results in a model of a complete wastewater treatment system. In the optimisation phase the decision maker can weigh the different sustainability indicators and select sustainable options through integer programming.In an environmental systems analysis of four wastewater systems. the environmental aspects were prioritised by normalisation of predicted impacts from the studied systems to the total impacts from society. Priority Group 1 (highest priority) consisted of discharges (flows) of nitrogen, cadmium. lead and mercury to water, recycling of nitrogen and phosphorus to arable land and flows of heavy metals to arable land. A conventional wastewater system (A) was compared to irrigation of energy forest with biologically treated wastewater (B), liquid composting of toilet wastewater (C) and a
 conventional system supplemented with urine separation (D). Analysing the aspects in priority group one, systems B-D improved the management of plant nutrients and decreased the flow of heavy metals to water, while the flow to arable land increased, especially for system B. The suggested method is useful in municipal environmental planning and when choosing a wastewater system. Urban metabolism measures quantitatively a city's load on the natural environment. We update the Newcombe et al. (3) pioneering study of Hong Kong's urban metabolism in 1971, highlighting trends in resource consumption and waste generation. Per capita food, water and materials consumption have surged since the early 1970s by 20%, 40%, and 149%, respectively. Tremendous pollution has accompanied this growing affluence and materialism, and total air emissions, CO2 Outputs, municipal solid wastes, and sewage discharges have risen by 30%, 250%, 245%, and 153%. As a result, systemic overload of land, atmospheric and water systems has occurred. While some strategies to tackle deteriorating environmental quality have succeeded, greater and more far-reaching changes in consumer behavior and government policy are needed if Hong Kong is to achieve its stated goal of becoming "a truly sustainable city" in the 21(st) century.In this the third article in the series exploring, the teaching and learning potential of models in urban geography, a prospective viewpoint is adopted to consider the problems and prospects for cities and city life in the twenty-first century The article comprises two sections. The first examines the principles of sustainable urban development and the concept of urban metabolism with particular reference to the basic issues of waste production and energy consumption. The second section evaluates a range of models of future urban form including the green city, dispersed city, compact city, transit metropolis, regional city, network city, informational city and virtual city, and considers the geographies of cities and city life in the third millennium.
 For over a century, Neandertal rib remains have engendered frequent discussions of "barrel-shaped" thoraces, largely in the absence of systematic comparison and hard data. We present here a description of the relatively complete ribcage of the Near Eastern Shanidar 3 Neandertal. We also furnish metric and non-metric comparisons of the Shanidar 3 ribs with other Near Eastern and European Neandertals, the Nariokotome (Homo erectus/ergaster) specimen, Levantine archaic/early modern humans, early and later European modern humans, and a sample of recent Euroamerican males, It is clear from these comparisons that Neandertals share with modem humans the fundamentally human thoracic "bauplan" that first evolved in the early Pleistocene. Yet it is also apparent that the ribcage of Neandertals differ in several anatomical details from those of fully modem humans. Rib curvature, posterior angle, mid-shaft cross-sectional size and shape, and muscle scarring varies considerably among Neandertals and across all samples when considered in isolated ribs. However, normalized metric and discrete patterning across the greater thorax clearly distinguishes Neandertals from our comparative samples. This is most marked in the inferior thorax where Neandertals (and probably earlier Homo) exhibit larger, more rounded and rugose ribs, and a greater costal area (thoracic volume). Greater lower rib cross-sectional robusticity and muscle scarring indicates relatively elevated ventilatory levels. Greater thoracic volume in Neandertals probably reflects greater body mass compared with modem humans since lung volume scales isometrically to body mass among mammals. Neandertal and modem human pulmonary capacity, normalized for body mass differences, was therefore roughly equivalent in the context of detailed differences in thoracic shape. To the extent that cold-climate adaptation is involved, Near Eastern Neandertals appear less "hyper-polar" in thoracic shape than their European counterparts as is also true for several other body proportion measures that are clinally distributed across the known Neandertal range. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.In this article, flood protection is considered in the context of sustainability. On the one hand, floods destroy human heritage and jeopardize sustainable development, which can be defined as 11 non-decreasing quality of life. " On the other hand, following the most common interpretation of sustainable development, one should not choose flood protection policies that could be rated by future generations as inappropriate options of flood defense. This is how several large structural flood defenses are often viewed. Non-structural measures are in better agreement with the spirit of sustainable development, being more reversible, commonly acceptable, and environment-friendly. Among such measures are source control (watershed/landscape structure management), laws and regulations (including zoning), economic instruments, an efficient flood forecast-warning system, a system of flood risk assessment, awareness raising, flood-related data bases, etc. As flood safety cannot be reached in most vulnerable areas with the help of structural means only, further flood risk reduction via non-structural measures is usually indispensable, and a site-specific mix of structural and non-structural measures seems to be a proper solution. Since sustain
abiliiy requires thinking about the future generations, the climate change issue becomes important. Non-structural measures lend themselves well to application in climate change adaptation strategies. As uncertainty in the assessment of climate change impacts is high, flexibility of adaptation strategies is particularly advantageous. Management of trees in agroecosystems such as agroforestry, ethnoforests, and trees outside forests can mitigate green house gas (GHG) emissions under the Kyoto Protocol. Agroforestry systems are a better climate change mitigation option than oceanic, and other terrestrial options because of the secondary environmental benefits such as helping to attain food security and secure land tenure in developing countries, increasing farm income, restoring and maintaining above-ground and below-ground biodiversity, corridors between protected forests, as CH4 sinks, maintaining watershed hydrology, and soil conservation. Agroforestry also mitigates the demand for wood and reduces pressure on natural forests. Promoting woodcarving industry facilitates long-term locking-up of carbon in carved wood and new sequestration through intensified tree growing. By making use of local knowledge, equity, livelihood security, trade and industry, can be supported. There is need to support development of suitable policies, assisted by robust country-wide scientific studies aimed at better understanding the potential of agroforestry and ethnoforestry for climate change mitigation and human well-being. (C) 2002 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.This paper provides an over-view of the treatment of technological change (TC) in economic models of environmental policy. Numerous economic modeling studies have confirmed the sensitivity of mid- and long-run climate change mitigation cost and benefit projections to assumptions about technology costs. In general, technical progress is considered to be a non-economic, exogenous variable in global climate change modeling. However, there is overwhelming evidence that TC is not an exogenous variable but to an important degree endogenous, induced by needs and pressures. Hence, some energy-economy-environment models treat TC as endogenous, responding to socioeconomic variables. Three main elements in models of technological innovation are: (i) corporate investment in research and development (R&D), (ii) spillovers from R&D, and (iii) technology learning, especially learning-by-doing. The incorporation of induced TC in different types of energy-environmental-economic models tends to reduce the costs of environmental policy, accelerates abatement and may lead to positive spillover and negative leakage. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Land-use change and forestry projects are considered a low-cost option for addressing climate change mitigation. In Canada, afforestation is targeted to sequester enough carbon to meet one-fifth of its international obligations, and at lower cost than emissions reduction. We examine economic aspects of the institutions and incentives needed to encourage landowners in Canada to adopt tree planting on a large scale. Based on data from a survey of landowners, the transaction costs of getting landowners to convert their land from agriculture to plantation forests appear to be a significant obstacle, possibly increasing the costs of afforestation projects beyo
nd what conventional economic analysis suggests.Fossil-fuel burning and deforestation have emerged as principal anthropogenic sources of rising atmospheric CO2 and consequential global warming. Variability in temperature, precipitation, snow cover, sea level and extreme weather events provide collateral evidence of global climate change. I review recent advances on causes and consequences of global climate change and its impact on nature and society. I also examine options for climate change mitigation. Impact of climate change on ecology, economy and society the three pillars of sustainability - is increasing. Emission reduction, although most useful, is also politically sensitive for economic reasons. Proposals of the geoengineering for iron fertilization of oceans or manipulation of solar flux using stratospheric scatters are yet not feasible for scientific and environmental reasons. Forests as carbon sinks, therefore, are required to play a multifunctional role that includes, but is not limited to, biodiversity conservation and maintenance of ecosystem functions; yield of goods and services to the society; enhancing the carbon storage in trees, woody vegetation and soils; and providing social and economic well-being of people. This paper explores strategies in that direction and concludes that the management of multifunctional forests over landscape continuum, employing tools of conservation biology and restoration ecology, shall be the vital option for climate change mitigation in future.Korea, straddled between developing and developed country status, is facing challenges and opportunities in energy use and climate change mitigation potential. Unlike other OECD countries, Korea's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are expected to continue to grow for the next two decades. The responses Korea could take to lower emissions without hampering economic development have an important bearing on the global response to climate change. This paper summarizes and evaluates mitigation strategies and major options for Korea in the energy sector, a major contributor to GHG emissions. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents an example of how air pollution models can be used together with energy system models to study the impacts of climate change mitigation strategies on air pollution. As many mitigation measures of greenhouse gases (GHGs) affect the use of fossil fuels in energy production, they can have important side-effects on other air pollution problems. This paper studies on a national scale the impacts of the planned GHG reduction measures on multiple air pollution problems in Finland, concentrating on acidification of forest soils and lakes, tropospheric ozone levels harmful to humans and vegetation and on emissions of fine particles. The air pollutant emission scenarios with the alternative energy choices are calculated for about 200 large point sources, assuming the present emission limit legislation. Disperse emissions are treated at municipality level. The analysis extends to the year 2020. The implementation of the Kyoto protocol in Finland would induce notable reductions of multiple air pollutant emissions and related environmental impacts. A 6-11 % reduction in ecosystems threatened by acidification in Southern and Central Finland would be achieved with the Finnish Climate Strategy alone. Substantial impro
vement in ozone levels would be reached in all scenarios compared to the current situation. The measures of the Climate Strategy could reduce the harmful ozone levels by a further 3%. The measures of the Climate Strategy would not significantly affect the primary particulate emissions in the future because the emissions from large power plants are already effectively controlled. Contrary to the fuel choices of the large units, expanded use of small-scale wood combustion can result in considerable increases of both fine particulate and VOC emissions. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The two project-based Kyoto mechanisms, joint implementation (JI) and the clean development mechanism (CDM), require a determination of the "baseline", the development of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the absence of the project. This paper examines, whether absolute (given in tCO(2) equivalent) or relative baselines ("benchmarks", given, e.g. in tCO(2) equivalent/MWh) should be applied for JI/CDM projects in the energy sector. Accuracy of the GHG emission reduction and manageability of GHG emission balances are used as evaluation criteria. The results show that relative baselines are a more accurate instrument for the estimation of emission reductions in JI/CDM projects in the energy sector without posing significant additional risks to the management of GHG emission balances for large entities. In comparison to absolute baselines, relative baselines indicate in a more realistic and conservative manner the amount of emission reductions obtained in the energy system and give more appropriate incentives to project sponsors. The additional risks of relative baselines are likely to be small compared to the normal deviation of the domestic/internal GHG emissions. The findings are in line with the Marrakesh Accords, which set restrictions to application of absolute baselines. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This review paper considers direct injection of industrial CO2 emissions into the mid-water oceanic column below 500 m depth. Such a process is a potential candidate for switching atmospheric carbon emissions directly to long term sequestration, thereby relieving the intermediate atmospheric burden. Given sufficient research justification, the argument is that harmful impact in both the Atmosphere and the biologically rich upper marine layer could be reduced. The paper aims to estimate the role that active intervention, through direct ocean CO2 storage, could play and to outline further research and assessment for the strategy to be a viable option for climate change mitigation. The attractiveness of direct ocean injection lies in its bypassing of the Atmosphere and upper marine region, its relative permanence, its practicability using existing technologies and its quantification, The difficulties relate to the uncertainty of some fundamental scientific issues, such as plume dynamics, lowered pH of the exposed waters and associated ecological impact, the significant energy penalty associated with the necessary engineering plant and the uncertain costs, Moreover, there are considerable uncertainties regarding related international marine law. Development of the process would require acceptance of the evidence for climate change, strict requirements for large industrial consumers of fossil fuel to reduce CO2 emissions into th
e Atmosphere and scientific evidence for the overall beneficial impact of ocean sequestration. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This paper analyses the flexible instruments Joint Implementation (JI) and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) with regard to achieving CO2 emission reduction targets in a sustainable way. In a first step an optimizing energy and material flow model is used to elaborate emission reduction strategies for Germany. The same methodology is then applied to Indonesia in order to determine the emission baseline for this country, which is an indispensable requirement for the evaluation of project-based flexible instruments. Then models for Germany, Russia and Indonesia are linked using a decomposition algorithm with the aim to elaborate emission reduction strategies for Germany, including JI and CDM projects. The results show substantial potential to limit emission reduction costs by multilateral cooperation. The most favourable types of cooperation project for the considered countries are CO2 sequestration and power plant projects. Finally, an approach to how to include the criterion of sustainable development is described.Future global warming has close relationship with abatement potential of six greenhouse gases (GHGs), including carbon dioxide (CO2) methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). Among Non-CO2 gases, net reduction of CH4 and N2O is relatively effective from the potential contribution to the global warming. CH4 and N2O are endogenously assessed in terms of emissions amount and abatement cost. Non-CO2 GHG abatement potential and its economic effects are discussed using integrated assessment model.The US EPA is developing analyses to characterize the role of high GWP gases as part of a comprehensive GHG mitigation approach. The analysis will present global baseline emission estimates and marginal abatement cost data that can be used in macroeconomic analyses of climate change mitigation strategies. The costs of reducing high GWP gas emissions for each major source will be estimated and assembled into a marginal abatement curve (MAC) that shows the total emission reductions achievable at increasing monetary values of carbon.Sorption devices like: heat pumps, waste heat fired chillers, trigeneration or sorption devices integrated in total energy systems show a strong potential for GHG emissions abatement (from 30% to 50% reductions). Those devices will play an important role in climate change mitigation as soon as positive regulatory and energy rating measures will be taken. But, all sorption systems are not equally environmentally friendly: this is the case for gas fired chillers which, generally, are not environmentally friendly. Industrial ecology is an approach to industrial development which emphasizes material cycling and webs of producers, consumers, scavengers and decomposers, and encourages resource conservation and waste prevention that leads to improved efficiency, competitiveness and sustainability. This article first introduces the functions and roles of scavengers and decomposers in the natural ecosystem. Then, by using this natural system metaphor, it studies how the industrial world can realize closing loop operation by encouraging the development of scavenger and decomposer businesses. A case study of 
Burnside Industrial Park is employed to further help the reader understand how to analyze the roles and functions of different businesses in an industrial system.Industrial ecology involves turning wastes into raw materials- an art that chemical engineers have practiced for decades.To achieve more than incremental reductions in resource consumption and waste, it will be necessary to develop new approaches to the systematic use and re-use of materials in the kind of system termed an "industrial ecology". This paper presents a new methodology-CHAin Management of Materials and Products (CHAMP)-developed for modelling the flow of materials through a succession of uses with different performance requirements. Although developed specifically for polymers, the CHAMP approach is also applicable to other materials and products. Materials are characterised by a set of technical performance parameters, termed utilities. Geographical location is also treated as a utility to enable logistics-both distribution of products and collection of used products or waste-to be incorporated within the same modelling framework. Processing, transport and use are treated as activities through which a material can pass. The costs and environmental impacts of activities are included in the modelling framework, and are assessed on a life cycle basis by considering the complete supply chain of materials and energy used by each activity. The methodology includes acceptance criteria which determine whether a material is suitable for specific uses or activities. These criteria are applied within the model to guide selection of materials for specific applications and of successive uses for specific materials. A simple example of the CHAMP approach is given, to illustrate the kinds of problem to which it has been applied. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.'Industrial ecology' is one of the most influential perspectives to have emerged in recent years in the wider discourse on 'sustainable development'. The vast majority of industrial ecologists believe that past economic development was characterized by a linear system of extraction, use and disposal. One of their main goals is therefore to find ways to make modern industrial economies mimic ecosystems by transforming the waste of one firm into the valuable input of another. Historical evidence presented in this article, however, demonstrates that inter-firm recycling linkages were a dominant characteristic of past economic development. If this was the case, why do most writers on sustainability believe otherwise? I suggest two broad categories of explanation: a lack of research into the spontaneous formation of inter-firm recycling linkages; and the progressive and cumulative implementation of market distortions and regulatory barriers to resource recovery over the last century. One implication of these findings is that the most important task facing industrial ecologists is probably not the technical challenge of planning resource recovery between firms, but the development of an institutional framework that forces firms to 'internalize their externalities' while leaving them the necessary freedom to develop new and profitable uses for by-products.The use of waste as a raw material for manufacturing is hampered by the uncertainty associated with the availability of supply. Technological change and obsoles
cence further complicates the ability of decision makers to consider discarded durable products as a potential source of raw materials. This uncertainty complicates remanufacturing and industrial ecology. A problem since remanufacturing and industrial ecology need to be (and can be) profitable as well as environmentally desirable if they are to be encouraged. To address this problem the modelling of the waste flow of durable goods is considered. The disposal of televisions in the United States is used to illustrate the challenges and requirements for forecasting in an environment with supply uncertainty. This example is timely since the diposal of cathode ray tubes (CRTs) in municipal landfills is being banned and an alternate technology trajectory for televisions exists-the flat panel display and phase-out of analogue broadcasting in the US. This paper estimates the waste stream resulting from three different scenarios of CRT leaded-waste disposal patterns. The reuse of lead-containing CRT glass is found to offer potential. The elimination of this controversial waste stream, as a result of replacement by the adoption of flat panel television technology, is still decades away. The findings in this study indicate the range of the quantity of waste that will require an alternative infrastructure as it is displaced from municipal landfills. This study provides important information for both developing a collection infrastructure and processing alternatives to extract the residual value of the disposed of televisions.The quantitative assessment of stocks and flows of materials throughout the technological cycle, from resource extraction to final disposal, can inform resource policy; environmental science, and waste management. This paper describes the technological cycle of copper based on work by the Stocks and Flows Project of the Yale Center for Industrial Ecology. Of copper produced in the 20th century, as much as 85% remains in use today. The recycling rate, while high, leaves nearly as much in waste destined for disposal (e.g., over 40% in the United States). The copper in production wastes currently approaches the quantity in post-consumer wastes, but the latter will dwarf the former over time as large in-use stocks reach end of life.Plants and plant crops have always been, and will continue to be, of vital importance for humankind. They are an essential source of food, feed, raw materials, energy and pleasure. One of the main concerns in agriculture has always been to improve the quality of seed. Today, at the beginning of the 3rd Millennium, agriculture is confronted with a wide range of complex challenges. With diminishing availability of farming land, climatic changes and the threat of declining water resources, the task is to meet the growing demand for food, feed, fibre, fuel, industrial products and products based on 'functional' plants. Future-oriented, knowledge-based and added-value agriculture will have to become reality. This will mean reduced use and redisposition of resources - in other words, 'Do more with less!' Within this context, the possibilities offered by efficiency developments in conventional seed breeding, supported by gene technology and plant genomic research, will improve the prospects of being able to use our limited natural resources to best effect in the 21st Century. The appropriate use and timely develo
pment of these important aspects will ensure sustainable production of food, feed, fibre, fuel and industrial products in the future.To meet the goals of sustainability and to enable industrial ecology, green chemistry and engineering needs to be studied from a life-cycle perspective. When designed correctly, green chemistry and engineering can affect multiple stages of the life cycle of a product or process. Successful implementations of green chemistry and engineering research are improving the environmental impacts of chemical products and processes in every stage of the life cycle while also offering economic incentives. Analysis of new and existing green chemistry and engineering technologies with quantitative and qualitative metrics can identify and quantify these benefits. The examples presented illustrate the principles of life-cycle assessment as applied to green chemistry and engineering.Industrial estates (IE) are today perceived as an integral part of development strategies of many countries worldwide. The environmental impacts from a concentration of large number of industries in a small area or unplanned IE, can pose a serious threat to both local and global sustainable development initiatives. The formation of ecologically balanced industrial systems can result in numerous environmental and economic benefits. This paper examines the relevance of industrial symbiosis and carrying capacity concepts and proposes an integrated approach towards IE planning in India based on grouping combinations of industries based on carrying capacity, formation of green industrial townships, development of environmental impact assessment guidelines for IE and implementation of environmental management systems. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Consett, a small town in County Durham, is set within the northeast England coalfield, and its iron and steel plant was formerly reliant on the local supply of deep-mined coal. The steelworks closed in 1980. Since then the environmental legacy of the works has been addressed through an `industrial ecology' approach, the aims of which are to reuse the site for industrial purposes and so aid economic regeneration of the town.The copper flows and stocks of the European economy are investigated and evaluated over a 1-year period in the early 1990s. The method applied is statistical entropy, which quantifies the distribution pattern of a substance (e.g. copper) caused by a system (e.g. political economy). Contemporary copper management can be defined as a simple chain of four processes: production of refined copper from ore; manufacture and fabrication of products and goods; consumption, utilization and storage (infrastructure) of goods; and separation of copper from waste for recycling and finally, landfilling (waste management). Relevant recycling streams (new and old scrap) within or between production, manufacture, and waste management processes also characterize the system. Throughout the life cycle of copper the statistical entropy varies considerably among the above-mentioned processes and covers about 50% of the possible range between total dissipation and maximal concentration of the total throughput of copper. Nevertheless, present copper management does not show a clear entropy trend across its life cycle. The system as a whole neither dissipates nor concentrates copper significant
ly with regard to the original ore. Even a more optimized waste management system with higher recycling efficiency could not significantly change this finding since today's copper flows into waste management are small compared to the consumption of copper. The relatively limited impact on the entropy trend of contemporary waste management may increase in the future because the infrastructure, which has been established over the last few decades, will be continuously renewed and replaced. As a result of these larger waste streams, decreasing overall entropy trends will be realizable, provided efficient recycling technologies are applied. This indicates the possibility for long-term feasible (perhaps sustainable) copper management. The entropy approach improves our understanding of industrial metabolism and is a useful decision support and design tool, since complex systems can thereby be quantified by a single metric per substance. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.In several industrialised countries, there have occurred initiatives to establish eco-industrial parks. Originally, these were mainly based upon the exchange of resources between heavy industries in industrial complexes. These initiatives are generally referred to with the concepts of industrial symbiosis and eco-industrial parks. Since then, the concept of eco-industrial parks has been extended to another relevant type of industrial park, the so-called mixed industrial park, which consists of various small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), sometimes complemented by a small number of larger industries. Because of the resulting growing ambiguity in the significance of eco-industrial park initiatives, a typology is desirable for entangling the confusion that is introduced. It is argued that mixed industrial parks are poorly investigated although they have a major environmental and spatial impact, Starting from a general consideration of eco-industrial park initiatives, this paper describes the societal and environmental problems that are related to the mixed industrial parks, proposes solutions and discusses the counteracting factors. While our argument relates strongly to the traditionally industrialised countries, it is also relevant to newly industrialised countries, as they are faced with similar problems, or will encounter them in the near future. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Mankind and especially engineering is today facing one of the most se ere challenge ever. Present energy engineering leads to resource depletion and environmental destruction. Thus we need to develop an energy engineering in harmony with nature. This paper presents the conditions for this and in what ay the exergy concept may contribute to this development. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In keeping with the 'industrial ecology' metaphor. roads and railways should be regarded as forming an ecosystem with their surroundings, just like industrial systems (factory premises. manufacturing industries) that have had to start functioning as ecosystems in which the flow of energy, water. raw materials and waste products has been made to recycle as far as possible. In this type of system approach, the flow of material. transport, emissions and energy and the habitats of plants and animals are geographically, systematically and functionally integrated, 
especially when they are based on a greater degree of interweaving between man and nature than is currently the case. In short, a new way of looking at the meaning of ecology in relation to the physical infrastructure. In the article, examples are given about the practical implication of linking ecological patterns and processes within the design process of civil engineering object, as well as the possible art's contribution in forming infrastructural landscapes. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Sustainability, industrial ecology, eco-efficiency, and green chemistry are guiding the development of the next generation of materials, products, and processes. Biodegradable plastics and bio-based polymer products based on annually renewable agricultural and biomass feedstock can form the basis for a portfolio of sustainable, eco-efficient products that can compete and capture markets currently dominated by products based exclusively on petroleum feedstock. Natural/Biofiber composites (Bio-Composites) are emerging as a viable alternative to glass fiber reinforced composites especially in automotive and building product applications. The combination of biofibers such as kenaf, hemp, flax, jute, henequen, pineapple leaf fiber, and sisal with polymer matrices from both nonrenewable and renewable resources to produce composite materials that are competitive with synthetic composites requires special attention, i.e., biofiber-matrix interface and novel processing. Natural fiber-reinforced polypropylene composites have attained commercial attraction in automotive industries. Natural fiber-polypropylene or natural fiber-polyester composites are not sufficiently eco-friendly because of the petroleum-based source and the nonbiodegradable nature of the polymer matrix. Using natural fibers with polymers based on renewable resources will allow many environmental issues to be solved. By embedding biofibers with renewable resource-based biopolymers such as cellulosic plastics; polylactides; starch plastics; polyhydroxyalkanoates (bacterial polyesters); and soy-based plastics, the so-called green bio-composites are continuously being developed.Solid waste treatment options (recycling, incineration, and landfilling; the two latter processes both with co-generation of heat and electricity) have been studied for cardboard, newspaper, polyethylene, poly(ethylene terephthalate), polypropylene, polystyrene, and poly(vinyl chloride) waste. The conversion processes have been analyzed in terms of the second law of thermodynamics. The analysis allows calculating the exergy (useful energy) embodied in conversion products that can be obtained from the required inputs for the treatment processes. Taking into account the waste materials and the resources to convert them, it proved that recycling is the most efficient option for polyethylene with an efficiency of 62.5% versus 43.6% for incineration and 0.9% for landfilling. Next, waste treatment has been put into the broader perspective of industrial ecology. Exergetic efficiencies of industrial metabolic options have been calculated. Here resources for manufacturing and converting solid products have been considered. Furthermore, selection of one type of conversion excludes the generation of other potential conversion products. Therefore, it has to be taken into account that these latter products still hav
e to be produced starting from virgin resources. Recycling proved to be the most efficient strategy: the ratio eta between exergy embodied in all delivered products on one hand, and all exergy withdrawn from the ecosphere or from waste materials on the other hand, is the highest. For polyethylene, eta proved to be 0.568, whereas eta is 0.503 and 0.329 for incineration and landfilling, respectively. On the other hand, if R the ratio between exergy of delivered products on one hand and exergy of virgin materials on the other hand is calculated, the differences between the industrial metabolic options are larger. Recycling polyethylene showed a ratio R of 0.936, whereas ratios of 0.772 and 0.531 were found for incineration and landfilling, respectively. It has been shown that the exergy concept allows a quantitative comparison of different industrial metabolic options, contributing to a better assessment of sustainability of technology with respect to resource management.The emerging concept of industrial ecology (IE) has been applied in practice in few case studies on local/regional industrial recycling networks. Analogously to a natural ecosystem, the aim is to develop material cycles and energy cascades between local cooperative actors. An optimal resource basis of an industrial ecosystem is the Sustainable use of local renewable natural resources. In this paper, we consider the region of North Karelia in Finland, with 19 municipalities, and hence somewhat expand the system boundaries of an industrial ecosystem case study. The current situation and two scenarios of municipal heating energy production are presented. The heating system consists of individual, district and electric heating. The heat production and related greenhouse gas emissions are considered. The current fuel use is based on imported oil and regional fuels (peat, wood wastes). Also, shares for co-production of heat and electricity (CHP) are shown. In scenario one, we assume the majority of the fuel basis in oil and absence of CHP. Scenario two illustrates nearly complete dependence on regional wood wastes and firewood with the current share of CHP. The North Karelia region provides the IE theory with a fruitful case study because the supply of waste fuels and local renewables is vast and waste utilisation technologies (CHP, fluidized bed burning) constitute a significant part of energy production. Implications of the applied scenario approach are discussed in the context of regional decision making and, in particular, for its implementation with the concepts of a regional environmental management system (REMS) and a regional industrial ecosystem management system (RIEMS).In Industrial Ecology the core idea is to find symbiolic relationships where waste material from one company is being Used by other companies and industrial ecosystems are created. Although the idea is simple. fundamental challenges exist related to the quality of the material. stability of the system, etc. A core question is how to assess of the "goodness" of such a system. In this paper, it is shown how ecological input-output analysis metrics can be used to analyze flows.Regional differences on the strategy against crisis to environment make a common frame invisible to promote the effective directions toward significant reduction of total mass requirement or dematerialization. This overview summarizes 
the intimate discussions, proposals and advisable comments at the first US-Japan Workshop on the Environmentally Benign Manufacturing and Materials Processing at Hawaii on the October 5th, 2001. in order to integrate the state-of-the-art research activities in both countries. In the discussion over the recyclable materials, value/cost-quality diagram is used to redefine the recycling process and to characterize various processes in the environmentally benign manufacturing. Influence of light-weight material selection on the dematerialization is discussed to find out a new direction. Importance of the trade-off-balancing on the high performance for long term use is reconsidered to search for a solution in the design of innovative manufacturing and materials processing. Mass flow analysis in the life cycle assessment is recognized as a tool to make eco-system design for industrial ecology, Several issues for further research are also argued to promote the related activities to the environmentally benign manufacturing and materials processing.Sustainable development has emerged as a powerful, force that is reshaping the policies and practices of global manufacturing firms. The principle of sustainability states that as we strive for economic prosperity and growth, we must not compromise the quality of life for our descendants. For corporations, seeking sustainability involves designing environmentally and socially responsible technologies, products, and processes with a full awareness of their life cycle costs and benefits. The concept of industrial ecology (IE) provides a useful systems perspective to support sustainable development while assuring shareholder value creation. IE is a broad, holistic framework for. guiding the transformation of industrial systems from a linear model to a closed-loop model that resembles the cyclical flows of ecosystems. In particular, the field of green chemistry represents an important set of design strategies for achieving the goals of IE through fundamental innovations.The major growth seen in the biotechnology industry in recent decades has largely been driven by the exploitation of genetic engineering techniques. The initial benefits have been predominantly in the biomedical area, with products such as vaccines and hormones that have received broad public approval. In the environmental biotechnology and industrial ecology sectors, biotechnology has the potential to make significant advances through the use of genetically modified (GM) microbial inoculants that can reduce agri-chemical usage or remediate polluted environments. Although many GM inoculants have been developed and tested under laboratory conditions, commercial exploitation has lagged behind. Here, we review scientific and regulatory requirements that must be satisfied as part of that exploitation process. Particular attention is paid to new European Union (EU) regulations (Directives) that govern the testing and release of genetically modified organisms and microbial plant protection inoculants in the EU. With regard to the release of GM inoculants, the impact of the inoculant and the fate of modified genes are important concerns. Long term monitoring of release sites is necessary to address these issues. Data are reported from the monitoring of a site 6 years after release of GM Sinorhizobium meliloti strains. It was found that despite the 
absence of a host plant, the GM strains persisted in the soil for at least 6 years. Horizontal transfer and microevolution of a GM plasmid between S. meliloti strains was also observed. These data illustrate the importance of assessing the long-term persistence of GM inoculants.The concepts of industrial ecosystem, ecological industrial carrying capacity and the concept of ecological footprint are reviewed and discussed in the context of sustainable development. It is stressed that bioremediation is offering useful technological tools for Industrial Ecology and in particular for the ecological sustainability of mining activities.Industrial ecology (IE) has been characterized by a fragmented approach encompassing a number of different perspectives and analytical techniques. A uniform framework has yet to be established or proposed. This paper partially addresses this shortcoming by tracing some of the historical and intellectual antecedents of the field. providing a clear and concise lexicon of the biological analogue. and contrasting the two most promising analytical methods by which IE research may be carried out: life cycle assessment (LCA) and systems analysis. Although a number of comparative environmental metrics may be employed in cost-minimization or thermodynamic efficiency studies, no single measure is sufficiently developed to prioritize among qualitatively disparate types of environmental impacts. It is argued herein that the concept of chemical energy of mixing may be the most promising basis for the development of a uniform. broad-based measure of chemical pollution, and that such a measure could significantly advance a scientific approach to IE. Some theoretical background is presented, although the reasoning herein is intended to be accessible to an interdisciplinary audience. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In this article, industrial ecology is used as a framework for analysing transport energy and its implication for products. The importance of the energy use for transport in a natural resource production system is analysed. By using fish as a case study, it is shown that the amount of energy for transport is highly dependent on the transport mode used. When applying industrial ecology principles for making assessments of the environmental impacts of products, the whole product chain is examined. This is an extended life-cycle approach, which also includes the transport of the finished products from the exporter to the importing country. This last part of the transport chain can be extremely energy demanding, as is shown for the case of fish transport. This finding has implications for the products, and for the form in which the products should be transported. Increasing the energy efficiency of production systems is an important industrial ecology principle, and must be taken into consideration when analysing product chains. A revision of today's practice of transporting large quantities of fresh whole fish by transcontinental airliners is bound to be necessary. This is a consequence of the demands for increased energy efficiency of tomorrow's industrial production systems. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The goal of sustainable use is indefinite use of the planet by humankind. This objective, in turn, requires that the planet's ecological life support system, consisting of natural 
capital and ecosystem services, remains healthy for an indefinite period. Achieving sustainability will require a new view of the responsibilities of professionals, such as ecotoxicologists, to ensure a healthy ecological life support system. Because both human society and natural systems are complex and multivariate, a high degree of uncertainty will remain. Therefore, sound judgment will be needed in determining what, if any, precautionary measures should be taken until more robust information has been gathered. The role of ecotoxicologists in the quest for sustainable use of the planet is quite varied: 1) shifting goals and endpoints from an absence of harm to persuasive evidence of health; 2) increasing both temporal and spatial scales of ecotoxicological studies; 3) achieving a critical mass of qualified personnel; 4) including demographic change in ecotoxicological analysis and judgment; 5) developing new ecological thresholds; 6) being prepared for environmental surprises; 7) focusing on design for a quality environment; 8) developing ecosystem services as endpoints in ecotoxicological studies, and 9) being prepared for climate change and other events that might destabilize the biosphere and require major adjustments in the process of ecotoxicological testing. Both sustainable use of the planet and the field of ecotoxicology are rapidly developing fields that are mostly evolving in isolation from each other. To be successful, they must co-evolve. In the present work Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used in order to evaluate a chemical reaction from an environmental point of view. The objective is to assess the usefulness of this methodology as an environmental tool to be applied to green chemistry. As an example, two routes of obtaining maleic anhydride are compared using LCA, to ascertain which one is the most environmentally friendly. From the results obtained in this work it can be concluded that LCA seems to be a valuable tool for the environmental assessment of a chemical reaction, because it takes into account all the life cycle stages of the process and discusses the impact of the environmental burdens inventoried according to a diversity of impact categories.The development of methodologies to assess the effects of pesticides in a consistent way and to enable comparison with the impacts from other agricultural practices is urgently needed. This paper describes a life cycle assessment method to determine the impact of pesticides on human health and ecosystems. The approach considers a full-fate analysis and the exposure to toxic pollutants through different media and pathways, including residues in food, based on the behavior of the pesticides in air and the importance of transfers between soil and surface or ground waters. For human toxicity, estimates of pesticide residues show that food intake results in the highest toxic exposure, about 10(3) to 10(5) times higher than that induced by drinking water or inhalation. Better evaluation practices of pesticide residues in food need to be established in priority. For the "no effect concentration (NEC)" used as a reference for both terrestrial and aquatic ecotoxicity, extrapolation methods are developed on the basis of experimental data. Extrapolation coefficients for risk assessment are to be used with caution; an intra-species extrapolation factor of 10 explained the relationshi
p between acute (LC50) and chronic (NOEC) ecotoxicity, whereas it was not suitable for inter-species extrapolation. The method is applied to a case study of five fungicides that have the same function on wheat. Results obtained for the 100 most commonly used pesticides in Switzerland are presented. It is demonstrated that the comparison of pesticides is feasible, the pollution sources of highest concern being identifiable and the best environmental management practices thereby promoted without penalizing the crop itself. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The building of the Solar Energy Laboratory (LESO) of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology of Lausanne was erected in 1981 to allow "in situ" testing of experimental solar facades. In 1998, the building was the object of a significant restoration and a new southern facade was designed and built following the principles of sustainable development. This article describes the principles that guided this work, and presents the results obtained with regard to energy consumption, flow of matter, daylight, comfort and, lastly, a detailed life cycle assessment analysis: the various. environmental impacts related to the construction, exploitation and maintenance of the facade are presented and discussed. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Exposure efficiency, the fraction of material released from a source that is eventually inhaled or ingested, is arguably the simplest of all possible descriptions of the link between pollutant emissions and population exposures. This paper, prepared in late 1999 for the SGOMSEC Workshop, notes that several groups of researchers independently developed the concept of exposure efficiency in the late 1980s and early 1990s but argues that the potential importance of exposure efficiency in risk analysis and life cycle assessment has only recently been appreciated. The paper reviews the history of the concept; discusses and summarizes previous estimates of exposure efficiency for particulate matter and other air pollutants; presents new values for fine particulate matter emitted from power plants and mobile sources in the United States; and illustrates how preliminary estimates of exposure efficiency might be developed. The authors assert that in order for the concept of exposure efficiency to achieve its full potential exposure efficiency estimates for a wide variety of pollutants and sources must be developed and that both the results and methods must be made widely available and accessible to the community of risk assessors and life cycle analysts. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In the past, the selection of all energy resource for electricity generation was dominated by finding the least expensive power generating plant. Although such all approach is essential, there is growing concern about other aspects of power generation such as social, environmental and technological benefits and consequences of the energy source selection. The aims of this paper are first to introduce a life cycle assessment (LCA) scheme with the aid of the NETS (Numerical Eco-load Total Standardization) method that we have newly proposed. This method provides a numerical measure for evaluating the quantitative load of any industrial activity on the environment, and has been used to analyze the energy flow and the environmental loads o
f various power generation systems. A second goal is to develop a computer program to examine the applicability, of technology options based oil cost performance and environmental load reduction. A filial goal of this work is to select the power system using life cycle assessment (LCA) and life cycle costing (LCC). As a result, environmental load and economical cost for various power generation systems are discussed from the LCA point of view for further ecological improvement.The environmental friendliness of building materials can be measured in life cycle assessments of the total energy inputs for the product, from cradle to grave. How do the environmental costs of wood compare with concrete and steel in housing construction? First we compare energy values for each material and for house components. Taking the viewpoint of a consumer, we then compare three typical houses in which steel, concrete, or wood is the dominant component. It appears that wood, wood components, and houses built primarily of wood require lesser amounts of energy in their manufacture, assembly, and operation. The robustness of the conclusions is shown by the degree of agreement among researchers and through an assessment of the impact of uncertainties in the analysis.This paper considers the technical feasibility of achieving NOx reductions through engine controls on existing oceangoing ships. International transport ships account for most of the NOx emissions from shipping globally and regionally (Corbett and Fischbeck 1997; Corbett et al. 1999). Recently, regulatory efforts to control NOx from ship propulsion have been adopted at the international level (IMO 1998)) along with related efforts at national levels (EPA 1998a; Lemieszewski 1999; National Swedish Maritime Administration 1996; Swedish Port and Stevedores Association 1999). The long working life of modern commercial ships, with world fleet averages greater than 20 years (UNCTAD 1995), implies that new-engine policies have limited value in meeting air-quality objectives in the near term. This has motivated efforts to control shipboard emissions with retrofit technologies. Nine technologies, demonstrated to control NOx from existing engines, are described in terms of their ability to reduce emissions at the lowest life-cycle costs. The costs for these technologies are within the cost range of similar controls proposed for new marine engines and within the cost ranges for various land-based NOx control efforts, suggesting that these are not only technically feasible but also are economically reasonable technologies for pollution control.Within the UK regulatory framework the radioactive and non-radioactive environmental impacts of nuclear facilities are regulated separately, preventing the nuclear industry from being regulated in a holistic manner. This paper demonstrates the application of life-cycle assessment in an attempt to address this situation with regard to the management of carbon-14 arising from the THORP nuclear reprocessing plant. Nevertheless, although the methodology proves useful for the analysis of the scientific aspect of decision-making, the need remains to develop techniques that allow for the integration of social factors into the decision-making process.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is becoming an effective tool for evaluating the environmental impacts of a product. Companies find on L
CA a good support when defining their environmental strategies, since it applies an overall view to detect those phases of the product life cycle where major environmental effects occur. However, applying strictly this methodology can be a costly, time-consuming process, and sometimes the company does not know the accurate data necessary to apply the LCA methodology. That is why it is necessary to develop simplified methods that are more suitable for small and medium-sized enterprises, SME. In this paper, a streamlined method is proposed, making use of fuzzy logic to avoid the need for in-depth environmental knowledge and extremely accurate data to carry out the assessment, thus making LCA more applicable to small and medium sized enterprises. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.To achieve more than incremental reductions in resource consumption and waste, it will be necessary to develop new approaches to the systematic use and re-use of materials in the kind of system termed an "industrial ecology". This paper presents a new methodology-CHAin Management of Materials and Products (CHAMP)-developed for modelling the flow of materials through a succession of uses with different performance requirements. Although developed specifically for polymers, the CHAMP approach is also applicable to other materials and products. Materials are characterised by a set of technical performance parameters, termed utilities. Geographical location is also treated as a utility to enable logistics-both distribution of products and collection of used products or waste-to be incorporated within the same modelling framework. Processing, transport and use are treated as activities through which a material can pass. The costs and environmental impacts of activities are included in the modelling framework, and are assessed on a life cycle basis by considering the complete supply chain of materials and energy used by each activity. The methodology includes acceptance criteria which determine whether a material is suitable for specific uses or activities. These criteria are applied within the model to guide selection of materials for specific applications and of successive uses for specific materials. A simple example of the CHAMP approach is given, to illustrate the kinds of problem to which it has been applied. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This article presents the environmental impacts of electricity generation systems, based on life-cycle assessments (LCAs). These assessments normally include impacts from extraction, processing and transportation of fuels, building of power plants and generation of electricity. The LCAs show that the following options have an excellent performance: hydropower (run-of-river and with reservoir), nuclear energy and windpower. Hydropower with reservoir does have high land requirements, but in spite of this, it is possible to conclude that it has the highest performance, if we consider 2 factors not always included in LCAs: firstly, reservoirs can provide secondary benefits such as irrigation or flood control; and secondly, hydropower has a high operating flexibility that can improve the reliability of electricity supply. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The environmental implications of including structural changes in a wastewater treatment plant to decrease effluent concentration
s of nitrogen were evaluated in this study. Environmental effects from these structural changes were assessed by using the Life Cycle Assessment theoretical framework. The wastewater treatment plant selected as a reference scenario had an activated sludge configuration. The Ludzack-Ettinger and Oxidation Ditch configurations were selected as modifications of the reference scenario. Results from this study show that the inclusion of nitrogen removal mechanisms in the configuration of the plant reduces the effect of the plant on the eutrophication, but simultaneously increases the effect on the consumption of abiotic resources, global warming, acidification and human toxicity. These general trends, however, vary depending on the configuration selected to remove nitrogen. Taking all the impacts together, the Oxidation Ditch configuration would cause less environmental impact than the Ludzack-Ettinger configuration, given the characteristics of the selected scenarios. (C) 2002 Society of Chemical Industry.Unplanned and unsustainable development (particularly rapid industrialisation) has placed great pressure in every dimension of the environment (air, water, soil, health, etc.). The resulting disturbance in the natural ecological balance is a serious concern. Sustainable development is the need of the hour; it can only be achieved through effective environmental management. Environmental management will become indispensable in the future as regulatory restrictions tighten and public expectations of environmental performance increase. The day is not far away when a customer will prefer to buy products produced by an environmentally committed organisation. In short, the environmental commitment of an organisation will become a market strategy. Environmental management is a set of actions based on a structured methodology to ensure that an organisation is committed to the environment and that the production process has minimal/no adverse affect on it. This article emphasises environmental management in the real engineering sense of the term, and discusses how to develop an effective environmental management system through life cycle assessment. It further demonstrates through a real life case study how an industry has achieved landmark success in managing its environment, production, as well as winning the good faith of society. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.A flexible pavement life-cycle model has been developed to yield an optimum maintenance and rehabilitation plan. The model incorporates into the optimization process both performance and cost associated with a life-cycle analysis period for a given pavement structure (project). A single life-cycle indicator called "life-cycle disutility" has been introduced and defined as the ratio of cost to performance. The optimum plan is the one associated with the minimum life-cycle disutility value. The model evaluates several potential maintenance and rehabilitaton plans generated according to two defined decision policy options. The first decision policy option requires a fixed analysis period, whereas the second one involves a variable analysis period. Both options require a specified number of major rehabilitation cycles. Pavement life-cycle cost includes initial construction, scheduled major rehabilitation cycles, and routine maintenance and added user cost. Pavement life-cycl
e performance is defined as the area under the life-cycle performance curve either generated from actual pavement distress data or based on an incremental analysis of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials basic design equation of flexible pavement.A simulation model, ORWARE (ORganic WAste REsearch) is described. The model is mainly used as a tool for researchers in environmental systems analysis of waste management. It is a computer-based model for calculation of substance flows, environmental impacts, and costs of waste management. The model covers, despite the name; both organic and inorganic fractions in municipal waste. The model consists of a number of separate submodels, which describes a process in a real waste management system. The submodels may be combined to design a complete waste management system. Based on principles from life cycle assessment the model also comprises compensatory processes for conventional production of e.g. electricity, district heating and fertiliser. The compensatory system is included in order to fulfil the functional units, i.e. benefits from the waste management that are kept constant in the evaluation of different scenarios. ORWARE generates data on emissions, which are aggregated into different environmental impact categories, e.g. the greenhouse effect, acidification and eutrophication. Throughout the model all physical flows are described by the same variable vector, consisting of up to 50 substances. The extensive vector facilitates a thorough analysis of the results, but involves some difficulties in acquiring relevant data. Scientists have used ORWARE for 8 years in different case studies for model testing and practical application in the society. The aims have e.g. been to evaluate waste management plans and to optimise energy recovery from waste. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Silicon carbide (SiC) heating elements (siliconits) are widely used at high-temperature fields. The raw materials, manufacture process and application fields of siliconits are all related to heavy energy consumption and pollutions, and bring high environmental loads. The resources consumption and pollution emissions in siliconit manufacture process were quantificationally estimated by input/output method. Difference between two traditional techniques to produce siliconits in China was also compared and analyzed. The results show that siliconit manufacture processes consume large quantities of resources because the furnace is open to environment and too much thermal-protection materials are used. For the thick-end technique is more complicated and the thick-end siliconits have a bigger size and mass, there are more resources and energy consumptions and pollution emissions for thick-end process than that for equal-diameter process. Some suggestions were introduced to improve the traditional techniques and a new process was designed. It is the most important that the open furnace should be replaced by close vacuum furnace. Sintering and siliconizing process can be combined into one high-temperature process. As results of process simplification and vacuum sintering, resources and energy consumption and wastes emission can be decreased remarkably. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This paper presents a life cycle assessment comparing diesel buses with buse
s fueled by natural gas. The data for the emission of pollutants are based on the MEET Project of the European Commission (EC) supplemented by data measured for diesel and gas buses in Paris. The benefits of the gas fueled bus are then quantified using the damage cost estimates of the ExternE Project of the EC. A diesel bus with emissions equal to Standard EURO2 of the EC is compared with the same bus equipped with a natural gas engine, for use in Paris and in Toulouse. The damage cost of a diesel bus is significant, in the range of 0.4-1.3 Euro/km. Natural gas allows an appreciable reduction of the emissions, lowering the damage cost by a factor of about 2.5 (Toulouse) to 5.5 (Paris). An approximate rule is provided for transferring the results to other cities. A sensitivity analysis is carried out to evaluate the effect of the evolution of the emissions standard towards EURO3, 4 and 5, as well as the effect of uncertainties. Finally a comparison is presented between a EURO2 diesel bus with particle filter, and a gas fueled bus with the MPI engine of IVECO, a more advanced and cleaner technology. With this engine the damage costs of the gas fueled bus are about 3-5 times lower than those of the diesel with particle filter, even though the latter has already very low emissions. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Aluminum (Al)/air batteries have the potential to be used to produce power to operate cars and other vehicles. These batteries might be important on a long-term interim basis as the world passes through the transition from gasoline cars to hydrogen fuel cell cars. The Al/air battery system can generate enough energy and power for driving ranges and acceleration similar to gasoline powered cars. From our design analysis, it can be seen that the cost of aluminum as an anode can be as low as US$ 1.1/kg as long as the reaction product is recycled. The total fuel efficiency during the cycle process in Al/air electric vehicles (EVs) can be 15% (present stage) or 20% (projected) comparable to that of internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEs) (13%). The design battery energy density is 1300 Wh/kg (present) or 2000 Wh/kg (projected). The cost of battery system chosen to evaluate is US$ 30/kW (present) or US$ 29/kW (projected). Al/air EVs life-cycle analysis was conducted and compared to lead/acid and nickel metal hydride (NiMH) EVs. Only the Al/air EVs can be projected to have a travel range comparable to ICEs. From this analysis, Al/air EVs are the most promising candidates compared to ICEs in terms of travel range, purchase price, fuel cost, and life-cycle cost. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Electrical power plants are responsible for over one-third of the US emissions, or about 1.7 Gt CO2 per year. Power-plant flue gas can serve as a source of CO2 for microalgae cultivation, and the algae can be cofired with coal. The study objective was to conduct a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to compare the environmental impacts of electricity production via coal firing versus coal/algae cofiring. The LCA results demonstrate that there are potentially significant benefits to recycling CO2 toward microalgae production. As it reduces CO2 emissions by recycling it and uses less coal, there are concomitant benefits of reduced greenhouse gas emissions. However, there are also other energy and fertilizer inputs needed f
or algae production, which contribute to key environmental flows. Lower net values for the algae cofiring scenario were observed for the following using the direct injection process (in which the flue gas is directly transported to the algae ponds): SOx, NOx, particulates, carbon dioxide, methane, and fossil energy consumption. Lower values for the algae cofiring scenario were also observed for greenhouse potential and air acidification potential. However, impact assessment for depletion of natural resources and eutrophication potential showed much higher values. This LCA gives us an overall picture and impacts across different environmental boundaries, and hence, can help in the decision-making process for implementation of the algae scenario. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This study aims to evaluate and estimate the environmental impacts of nuclear fuel cycles and to support the decision-making of nuclear energy policy, relating to a selection of environmentally preferred nuclear fuel cycle for the environmentally sound and sustainable development of nuclear energy. To achieve this objective, life cycle assessment (LCA) as an environmental management tool is applied to the nuclear fuel cycle alternatives of a once-through fuel cycle, the direct use of PWR spent fuel in CANDU (DUPIC) cycle and recycling with plutonium and uranium recovery by extraction (PUREX) process. The assessments provide a comparison of the environmental impacts of the three nuclear fuel cycle options and the environmentally most significant stages of each nuclear fuel cycle are identified. As a result, the recycling with PUREX process turned out to impose less-significant environmental impact than did the DUPIC and once-through options. The environmentally dominant stage was found to be mining/milling stage and the most radiologically significant pathway could be an internal exposure. The results are useful for making a decision of nuclear energy policy by an estimation of environmental impacts of nuclear fuel cycle options and the application of LCA to nuclear energy is very significant eco-labeling according to the advent of international standard organization 14,000 series. Finally, this approach also makes it possible to obtain the environmental data relating to the nuclear energy and to examine the environmental impacts of chemical effluents discharged from a nuclear facility. From this result, therefore, the comparative assessment of nuclear and non-nuclear energy sources including radiological and non-radiological aspects may be further developed. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Many companies have focused on pollution prevention initiatives including reducing the amount of energy required for production. However, many products consume orders of magnitude more energy and cause greater environmental emissions over the entire life cycle. With this in mind, a life cycle assessment of manufacturing and use-phase effects was done for a computer tape drive (TD) product. Quantum Corporation's Environmental Stewardship Group initiated an evaluation of the differential electricity and environmental impacts of its TD products that are shipped worldwide. This research showed that when internal corporate service functions were included in the evaluation, 60% more electricity was used than when only final assembly was considered. I
n addition, the consumption of electricity from external suppliers was nearly three times higher than internal use sources. Finally, use-phase electricity consumption was a factor of four higher than total manufacturing consumption. Better management of TD life cycle electricity use would serve to reduce the total cost of ownership (TCO) for customers, while at the same time, reducing the global environmental impact of the product. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) and comparative risk assessment (RA) use the same building blocks for analyzing fate and potential effects of toxic substances. It is tacitly assumed that emission-effect calculations can give uniform and decisive answers in debates on toxicity problems. For several decades, mainstream policy sciences have taken a different starting point when analyzing decision making on complex, controversial societal issues. Such controversies in essence are thought to be caused by the fact that different actor coalitions adhere to a different, but in scientific terms equally reasonable, conceptualization or "framing" of the problem. A historical, argumentative analysis of the Dutch chlorine debate and the Swedish PVC debate shows that this is also true in the discussions on toxic substances. Three frames have been identified, which were coined the "risk assessment frame." "the strict control frame," and the "precautionary frame." These frames tacitly disagree about the extent of knowledge/ignorance about the impacts of substances, the robustness/fallibility of emission-reduction schemes, and the robustness/vulnerability of nature. The latter frame, adhered to by environmentalists, seeks to judge substances mainly on their inherent safety. Under the current institutional arrangements and practices, RA and LCIA are executed mainly in line with the philosophy expressed, by the risk assessment frame. This article gives various suggestions for dealing with framing in debates on toxic substances. One of the options is elaborated in somewhat more detail, i.e., the development of multiple indicators and calculation schemes for RA and LCIA that reflect the different frames. An outline is given for a possible indicator system reflecting the precautionary principle.A third generation of environmental policy making and risk management will increasingly impose environmental measures, which may give rise to analyzing countervailing risks. Therefore, a comprehensive analysis of all risks associated with the decision alternatives will aid decision-makers in prioritizing alternatives that effectively reduce both target and countervailing risks. Starting with the metaphor of the ripples caused by a stone that is thrown into a pond, we identify 10 types of ripples that symbolize, in our case, risks that deserve closer examination: direct, upstream, downstream,. accidental risks, occupational risks, risks due to offsetting behavior, change in disposable income, macro-economic changes, depletion of natural resources, and risks to the manmade environment. Tools to analyze these risks were developed independently and recently have been applied to overlapping fields of application. This suggests that either the tools should be linked in a unified framework for comparative analysis or that the appropriate field of application for single tools should be better und
erstood. The goals of this article-are to create a better foundation for the understanding of the nature and coverage of available tools and to identify the remaining gaps. None of the tools is designed to deal with all 10 types of risk. Provided data suggest that, of the 10 types of identified risks, those associated with changes in disposable income may be particularly significant when decision alternatives differ with respect to their effects on disposable income. Finally, the present analysis was limited to analytical questions and did not capture the important role of the decision-making process itself.Modern technology, together with an advanced economy, can provide a good or service in myriad ways, giving us choices on what to produce and how to produce it. To make those choices more intelligently, society needs to know not only the market price of each alternative, but the associated health and environmental consequences., A fair comparison requires evaluating the consequences across the whole "life cycle"-from the extraction of raw materials and processing to manufacture/construction, use, and end-of-life-of each alternative. Focusing on only one stage (e.g., manufacture) of the life cycle is often misleading. Unfortunately, analysts and researchers still have only rudimentary tools to quantify the materials and energy inputs and the resulting damage to health and the environment. Life cycle assessment (LCA) provides an overall framework for identifying and evaluating these implications. Since the 1960s, considerable progress has been made in developing methods for LCA, especially in characterizing, qualitatively and quantitatively, environmental discharges. However, few of these analyses have attempted to assess the quantitative impact on the environment and health of material inputs and environmental discharges. Risk analysis and LCA are connected closely. While risk analysis has characterized and quantified the health risks of exposure to a toxicant, the policy implications have not been clear. Inferring that an occupational or public health exposure carries a nontrivial risk is only the first step in formulating a policy response. A broader framework, including LCA, is needed to see which response is likely to lower the risk without creating high risks elsewhere. Even more important, LCA has floundered at the stage of translating an inventory of environmental discharges into estimates of impact on health and the environment. Without the impact analysis, policymakers must revert to some simple rule, such as that all discharges, regardless of which chemical, which medium, and where they are discharged, are equally toxic. Thus, risk analysts should seek LCA guidance in translating a risk analysis into policy conclusions or even advice to those at risk. LCA needs the help of RA to go beyond simplistic assumptions about the implications of a discharge inventory. We demonstrate the need and rationale for LCA, present a brief history of LCA, present examples of the application of this tool, note the limitations of LCA models, and present several methods for incorporating risk assessment into LCA. However, we warn the reader not to expect too much. A comprehensive comparison of the health and environmental implications of alternatives is beyond the state of the art. LCA is currently not able to provide risk analysts with detailed inf
ormation on the chemical form and location of the environmental discharges that would allow detailed estimation of the risks to individuals due to toxicants. For example, a challenge for risk analysts is to estimate health and other risks where the location and chemical speciation are not characterized precisely. Providing valuable information to decisionmakers requires advances in both LCA and risk analysis. These two disciplines should be closely linked, since each has much to contribute to the other.Life cycle assessment (LCA) and risk assessment are operationally different but share the common purpose of supporting decisions about reducing threats to human welfare. Both analysis methods also involve a complex mixture of science and value judgments reflecting epistemological as well as moral and esthetic values. The inability of risk assessment and LCA to be "value free" has been a source of considerable controversy, in both communities. Recognition of the contingent and social nature of human interpretation of the risks and environmental impacts created by public and private decisions has led to an increased appreciation of the importance of involving interested and affected parties in risk characterization. Comparison of the value-based nature of LCA and risk assessment demonstrates the need for participation in LCA. Although the need for participation by affected parties in decision-making processes is gaining acceptance, there is little agreement as to how participation should be structured. Risk assessment and LCA have a shared need for research examining the design and analysis of participation processes appropriate to a given decision context. A proposed framework recommends participation strategies designed to enhance the effectiveness of policy-driven analyses such as risk assessment and LCA based on the level of trust that interested and affected parties have for other policy participants.Quantitative risk assessment (RA) and life cycle assessment (LCA) are both analytical tools used to support decision making in environmental management. They have been developed and used by largely separate groups of specialists, and it is worth considering whether there is a common research agenda that may increase the relevance of these tools in decision-making processes. The validity of drawing comparisons between use of the tools is established through examining key aspects of the two approaches for their similarities and differences, including the nature of each approach and contextual and methodological aspects. Six case studies involving use of each approach in public decision making are described and used to draw out concerns about using RA and LCA in this context. The following categories of concern can be distinguished: philosophical approach of the tools; quantitative versus qualitative assessment; stakeholder participation; the nature of the results; and the usefulness of the results in relation to time and financial resource requirements. These can be distilled into a common policy research agenda focusing on: the legitimacy of using tools built on a particular perspective in decision making; recognition and role of value judgments in RA and LCA; treatment of uncertainty and variability; the influence of analytical tools in focusing attention on particular aspects of a decision-making situation; and understandability of the resu
lts for nonspecialists. It is concluded that it is time to bring together the experiences of RA and LCA specialists and benefit from cross-fertilization of ideas.We employ the intake fraction (iF) as an effective tool for expressing the source-to-intake relationship for pollutant emissions in life cycle analysis (LCA) or comparative risk assessment. Intake fraction is the fraction of chemical mass emitted into the environment that eventually passes into a member of the population through inhalation, ingestion, or dermal exposure. To date, this concept has been primarily applied to pollutants whose primary route of exposure is inhalation. Here we extend the use of iF to multimedia pollutants with multiple exposure pathways. We use a level III multimedia model to calculate iF for TCDD and compare the result to one calculated from measured levels of dioxin toxic equivalents in the environment. We calculate iF for emissions to air and surface water for 308 chemicals. We correlate the primary exposure route with the magnitudes of the octanol-water partition coefficient, K-ow, and of the air-water partitioning coefficient (dimensionless Henry constant), K-aw. This results in value ranges of K-ow, and K-aw where the chemical exposure route can be classified with limited input data requirements as primarily inhalation, primarily ingestion, or multipathway. For the inhalation and ingestion dominant pollutants, we also define empirical relationships based on chemical properties for quantifying the intake fraction. The empirical relationships facilitate rapid evaluation of many chemicals in terms of the intake. By defining a theoretical upper limit for iF in a multimedia environment we find that iF calculations provide insight into the multimedia model algorithms and help identify unusual patterns of exposure and questionable exposure model results.Refinements of methods for life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) are directed at removing unjustified simplifications and quantifying and reducing uncertainties in results. The amount of uncertainty reduction that is actually achieved through LCIA method refinement depends on the structure of the life cycle inventory model. We investigate the general structure of inventory models using an economic input/output (I/O) life cycle assessment model of the US. economy. In particular, we study the results of applying a streamlining algorithm to the I/O LCA model. The streamlining algorithm retains only those "branches" of the process tree that are jointly required to account for a specified fraction of the total impacts upstream of each point in the tree. We examine the implications of these "tree pruning" results for site-informed LCIA. Percentiles are presented for U.S. commodities and several important pollutants, for the share of total upstream emissions contributed by the set of processes in each supply tier, that is, each set of processes that directly supply inputs to another set of processes. Capturing at least 90% of the total direct plus upstream emissions for criteria air pollutants and toxic releases for at least 75% of the commodities in the U.S. economy requires full modeling of direct emissions plus the first five supply tiers. The requirements for capturing a high percentage (e.g., >80%) of total emissions vary widely across products or commodities. To capture more than 60% of total emissions for m
ore than half of all commodities requires models with more than 4,000 process instances. To well characterize the total impacts of products, life cycle impact assessment methods must characterize foreground process impacts in a site-informed way and mean impacts of far-removed processes in an unbiased way.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a framework for comparing products according to their total estimated environmental impact, summed over all chemical emissions and activities associated with a product at all stages in its life cycle (from raw material acquisition, manufacturing, use, to final disposal). For each chemical involved, the exposure associated with the mass released into the environment, integrated over time and space, is multiplied by a toxicological measure to estimate the likelihood of effects and their potential consequences. In this article, we explore the use of quantitative methods drawn from conventional single-chemical regulatory risk assessments to create a procedure for the estimation of the cancer effect measure in the impact phase of LCA. The approach is based on the maximum likelihood estimate of the effect dose inducing a 10% response over background, ED10, and default linear low-dose extrapolation using the slope beta(ED10) (0.1/ED10). The calculated effects may correspond to residual risks below current regulatory compliance requirements that occur over multiple generations and at multiple locations; but at the very least they represent a "using up" of some portion of the human population's ability to accommodate emissions. Preliminary comparisons are performed with existing measures, such as the US. Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA's) slope factor measure q(1)*. By analyzing bioassay data for 44 chemicals drawn from the EPA's Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) database, we explore estimating ED10 from more readily available information such as the median tumor dose rate TD50 and the median single, lethal dose LD50. Based on the TD50, we then estimate the ED10 for more than 600 chemicals. Differences in potential consequences, or severity, are addressed by combining betaED(10) with the measure disability adjusted life years per affected person, DALYp. Most of the variation among chemicals for cancer effects is found to be due to differences in the slope factors (betaED(10)) ranging from 10(-4) up to 10(4) (risk,of cancer/mg/kg-day).In Part 1 of this article we developed an approach for the calculation of cancer effect measures for life cycle assessment (LCA). In this article, we propose and evaluate the method for the screening of noncancer toxicological health effects. This approach draws on the noncancer health risk assessment concept of benchmark dose, while noting important differences with regulatory applications in the objectives of an LCA study. We adopt the central tendency estimate of the toxicological effect dose inducing a 10% response over background, ED10, to provide a consistent point of departure for default linear low-dose response estimates (beta(ED10)). This explicit estimation of low-dose risks, while necessary in LCA, is in marked contrast to many traditional procedures for noncancer assessments. For pragmatic reasons, mechanistic thresholds and nonlinear low-dose response curves were not implemented in the presented framework. In essence, for the comparative needs of LCA, w
e propose that one initially screens alternative activities or products on the degree to which the associated chemical emissions erode their margins of exposure, which may or may not be manifested as increases in disease incidence. We illustrate the method here by deriving the betaED(10) slope factors from bioassay data for 12 chemicals and outline some of the possibilities for extrapolation from other more readily available measures, such as the no observable adverse effect levels (NOAEL), avoiding uncertainty factors that lead to inconsistent degrees of conservatism from chemical to chemical. These extrapolations facilitated the initial calculation of slope factors for an additional 403 compounds; ranging from 10(-6) to 10(3) (risk per mg/kg-day dose). The potential consequences of the effects are taken into account in a preliminary approach by combining the beta(ED10) with the severity measure disability adjusted life years (DALY), providing a screening-level estimate of the potential consequences associated with exposures, integrated over time and space, to a given mass of chemical released into the environment for use in LCA.Increasing residential insulation can decrease energy consumption and provide public health benefits, given changes in emissions from fuel combustion, but also has cost implications and ancillary risks and benefits. Risk assessment or life cycle assessment can be used to calculate the net impacts and determine whether more stringent energy codes or other conservation policies would be warranted, but few analyses have combined the critical elements of both methodologies. In this article, we present the first portion of a combined analysis, with the goal of estimating the net public health impacts of increasing residential insulation for new housing from current practice to the latest International Energy Conservation Code (IECC 2000). We model state-by-state residential energy savings and evaluate particulate matter less than 2.5 mum in diameter (PM2.5), NOx, and SO2 emission reductions. We use past dispersion modeling results to estimate reductions in exposure, and we apply concentration response functions for premature mortality and selected morbidity outcomes using current epidemiological knowledge of effects of PM2.5 (primary and secondary). We find that an insulation policy shift would save 3 x 10(14) British thermal units or BTU (3 x 10(17) J) over a 10-year period, resulting in reduced emissions of 1,000 tons of PM2.5, 30,000 tons of NOx, and 40,000 tons of SO2. These emission reductions yield an estimated 60 fewer fatalities during this period, with the geographic distribution of health benefits differing from the distribution of energy savings because of differences in energy sources, population patterns, and meteorology. We discuss the methodology to be used to integrate life cycle calculations, which can ultimately yield estimates that can be compared with costs to determine the influence of external costs on benefit-cost calculations.This paper deals with the scheduling problem of refinery processes considering environmental impacts. To keep abreast of rapidly changing business circumstances, the effective scheduling of the objective of which is to maximize the total profit is absolutely needed for large scale plants such as refinery processes. In addition, companies cannot avoid making an effort to re
duce environmental impacts because now people have a much better understanding of the environment. However, the two objectives mentioned above are conflicting. There is no way to maximize the total profit and minimize environmental impacts simultaneously, but a tradeoff exists In this case, the best way is to obtain Pareto optimal solutions by multiobjective optimization. Plotting Pareto optimal solutions, decision makers are able to know the correlation between the two objectives. The selection of one of the Pareto optimal solutions depends largely on the decision makers. In this paper, a mixed-integer linear programming model is developed for solving the scheduling problem of actual size refinery processes. Critical Surface-Time 95 (CST95), an impact assessment methodology, is used for considering global environmental impacts. The E-constraint method is used in order to implement multiobjective optimization. Finally, this paper proposes Pareto optimal solutions and shows the optimal scheduling of an arbitrary point in Pareto optimal solutions compared with the total profit maximization problem.To meet the goals of sustainability and to enable industrial ecology, green chemistry and engineering needs to be studied from a life-cycle perspective. When designed correctly, green chemistry and engineering can affect multiple stages of the life cycle of a product or process. Successful implementations of green chemistry and engineering research are improving the environmental impacts of chemical products and processes in every stage of the life cycle while also offering economic incentives. Analysis of new and existing green chemistry and engineering technologies with quantitative and qualitative metrics can identify and quantify these benefits. The examples presented illustrate the principles of life-cycle assessment as applied to green chemistry and engineering.Although assessment models exist for evaluating buildings after they are designed, the problem is creating an appropriate tool for the design team to use during the design process to create sustainable (green) buildings. An integrated, life-cycle-oriented design tool (LEGOE) is proposed and its general criteria identified for use in practice including the scope of methods as well as their scalability over the manufacture, construction, use, cleaning, maintenance, refurbishment and recycling/waste cycles of the building and its components. The design tool is compared with assessment tools for green buildings. The integration of basic methods of life-cycle analysis (LCA), in particular energy and massflow analysis, into the normal practice environment (CAAD, specification and quantity surveying, energy need and building physics calculation, comfort and health risk appreciation) is considered. Feedback from the initial practical applications of the integrated tool is discussed. Conclusions concern the time-span for the development and diffusion of new integrated tools in the planning, design and specification processes.It is important to assess environmental impacts of materials or products properly. But the typical method called Life Cycle Assessment has many problems. Above all, it is crucial that various kinds of environmental impacts cannot be integrated. We present an attempt to use the exergy concept to express environmental impacts. Exergy has been used to analyze thermal efficien
cy of the production process. However, to apply exergy to environmental problems, exergy of materials is important since chemical reaction of the wastes cause environmental problems. Exergy expresses gap of free energy between a given state and that of environment. Thus, the concept of exergy gives potential of environmental impacts. We analyzed impacts of life cycle of both steel and aluminum cans as an example. We have proposed a new diagram that represents exergy and mass flow in a system. The diagram consists of triangles and arrows. The three sides of triangle represent inputs, products and wastes of a unit process. The length and width of arrow express the magnitudes of exergy and mass, respectively. It was estimated that the total exergy of material wastes from life cycle of one thousand cans made of aluminum and steel are 540 MJ and 305 MJ, respectively. If the recycling rate is 100 per cent, the amounts of exergy are reduced to 49 MJ and 10 MJ. It is concluded that the present analysis based on exergy is useful to evaluate potential environmental impacts caused by mass discarding of materials. But it is still insufficient to evaluate impacts of trace toxic chemicals such as dioxin.Vehicle refinishing body shops are concerned by the environmental policy against photochemical air pollution caused by VOC emissions. For supporting these small enterprises the mass and energy flow model IMPROVE has been developed. Based on an LCA-approach, the process steps of vehicle refinishing are modelled. The model IMPROVE helps to disseminate the consequences of product substitution in comparison to so far used products and techniques in the body shop. For the dissemination of experiences practical guidelines have been developed. Moreover, a comprehensible tool for the Solvent Balance is being offered. Thus, various means are available for consulting and also for strategic production planning for the SME in the sector.Recently, the US Environmental Protection Agency completed the development of the first version of the Metal Finishing Facility Risk Screening Tool (MFFRST) and has made this product available to the general public (http://www.epa.gov/ncea/mffrst.htm). MFFRST calculates the air emissions from a metal plating line and estimates the risk to both facility employees and the surrounding neighborhood from the air emissions. The next step in the development of MFFRST is to include solid and liquid wastes in the analysis. In order to accurately estimate the risks associated with these waste streams, the quantity of waste generated and the mass of hazardous substances they contain must be known. The second version of MFFRST will utilize process synthesis and integration techniques to simulate the metal finishing process. Process synthesis and integration devolve the process into simple structures that can then be combined to create a model of the metal plating line. The quantity and composition of waste streams can then be calculated using the model. The model can then be used to analyze the effect of process modifications on waste generation. The ultimate goal of the program is to enable the user to evaluate the process to analyze any of a number of factors, including quantity and composition of wastes generated, cost/benefit analysis of waste reduction processes and/or life cycle analysis of the metal finishing process.In this study a new 
approach of using life cycle assessment (LCA) in design situations is adopted. The environmental impact of the different sub-processes is simplified and expressed as a cumulative formation rate of environmental impact (expressed as ecopoints or equivalent). The LCA does not change over time but the LCA is dynamic due to its dependence of the chosen design parameters (residence time and temperature). Therefore, it is possible to environmentally optimise different systems such as energy systems. The method is applied to an energy system where a superheated steam dryer is integrated in a local district heat and power plant. Although some primary environmental data are uncertain in the analysis, it is clear that the externally produced electrical energy, due to the exergy losses of the steam used for drying, effects the environmental optimisation of the system. If it is assumed that any additional electricity that may be required in the total energy system is obtained from old Danish coal plants a lower drying temperature is preferred. The capital goods are not important in the environmental study but it is important in the economic study. Many environmental and economical effects are coupled. A dried biofuel will create lower losses during combustion, due to the flue gas, and will therefore make use of less biofuel, less transports, etc. The effects of organic losses of the biofuel are estimated to be of minor importance due to the optimisation of the system if the organic compounds from the exhaust steam are reduced inside the system. If combined economical and environmental optima are demanded it is possible that Pareto curves can support the decision making. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.There is a growing interest in utilizing renewable resources and exploiting biological reactions for environmentally friendly products and processes. We report the use of the enzyme tyrosinase to graft the natural phenol, catechin, onto the biopolymer chitosan. Chemical evidence for grafting was obtained by UV/visible spectrophotometry and electrospray mass spectrometry. Rheological measurements demonstrate that the catechin-modified chitosan behaves as an associative thickener. Specifically, the viscosity increases dramatically with concentration of this modified chitosan. Furthermore, when the catechin-modified chitosan is dissolved at low concentrations (0.6% w/w), steady shear measurements show shear thinning behavior, while oscillatory measurements show weak gel behavior. These results demonstrate the potential for utilizing renewable resources and biochemical processing to functionalize biopolymers to offer technically useful properties. To suggest the relative environmental impacts of chitosan derivatives with existing water-soluble polymers, we used the framework of a life cycle assessment.An environmental analysis of the used starting, lighting and ignition (SLI) batteries sector, based on the logistics involved in the recovery process and the tools available for measuring the environmental impact of such a process, is performed in this paper. The different phases of the reverse supply chain of used batteries are analysed, and the operations and practices involved are related with the impact on the environment, using a life cycle analysis. The analysis is exemplified by using the results of a case study. In addition, the situ
ation in different countries from a legislative point of view is presented. Finally, the results of the analysis are summarised and several important issues arising from the analysis are discussed. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.As demand for electricity increases, investments into new generation capacity from renewable and nonrenewable sources should include assessment of global (climate) change consequences not just of the operational phase of the power plants but construction effects as well. In this paper, the global warming effect (GWE) associated with construction and operation of comparable hydroelectric, wind, solar, coal, and natural gas power plants is estimated for four time periods after construction. The assessment includes greenhouse gas emissions from construction, burning of fuels, flooded biomass decay in the reservoir, loss of net ecosystem production, and land USE. The results indicate that a wind farm and a hydroelectric plant in an arid zone (such as the Glen Canyon in the Upper Colorado River Basin) appear to have lower GWE than other power plants. For the Glen Canyon hydroelectric plant, the upgrade 20 yr after the beginning of operation increased power capacity by 39% but resulted in a mere 1% of the CO2 emissions from the initial construction and came with no additional emissions from the reservoir, which accounts for the majority of the GWE.The advances in the knowledge of the interaction of human activities with the environment has enabled us to study systematically the available information and to develop assessment systems that permit to have reliable, useful and intercomparable results. A very useful tool for such scope is the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), which permits to follow stepwise all the interactions involved in a given manufacturing process, from extraction of natural resources up to the end of the useful life of the product and its return to environment. The ordered accumulation of information permits to deep into the so-called Minerals-Material Cycle (MMC), which describes the results of the superposition of anthropic and natural cycles. In the present work the application of LCA to the case of glass products manufacture is examined, in particular to glass containers, using the ISO Standards 14040 to 49. The opportunities and challenges that these procedures involve for the glass industries are also examinated.Activities related to refurbishment of the building stock as a percentage of all building work have been constantly growing in most central European countries over the last 20 years. The main argument in this paper is the need to improve knowledge about composition of the existing building stock, the dynamics of its transformation and to relate this to the different actors in property professions. A review is presented of traditional and new sectoral research approaches to partial or national building stocks to provide a context for assessing an integrated approach to the German building stock with methodological propositions for improving the synergy between different sectoral approaches. Detailed consideration is given to life cycle analysis, building product modelling, historical building research and new simulation techniques. Sustainability indicators and the integration of building stock, infrastructure and land use are discussed.A methodology for the evaluation of m
aterial recycling in the life cycle inventory (LCI) was established. In this study the concept of "material" is introduced, by which the system is extended to the cases that the materials are transferred from outside to inside or vice versa of the boundary of the system. The extension of the system should be performed by means of the same way of the circulation one, in accordance with the principle of consistency of the function unit and the each system boundary. Based on this method the environmental loads of recycled materials such as secondary aluminum, casting aluminum and EAF steel were reasonably calculated and the effect of recycling was properly evaluated.The coal-based power generation industry faces increased pressure from all sectors to improve its environmental performance. This is due to increased awareness of and concerns regarding greenhouse and acid-gas emissions, toxic metal releases (to both air and water) and water availability. A methodology to assess this industry's environmental performance is needed. Such a methodology should assess aft environmental impacts accurately, recognizing their spatial and temporal dependence, and taking into account the social acceptability of technologies employed. Here, we develop a methodology to determine the environmental impact associated with solid wastes generated by this industry, and apply this to the specific case of ash management. More specifically, the case study compares the environmental footprint of an ash deposit for a number of operational water management scenarios. The methodology considers leachate generation processes from ash impoundments to obtain a time-dependent concentration profile of mobile constituents at the interface between the ash impoundment and the surrounding environment. This leachate prediction modelling is subsequently linked to plume dispersion modelling tools to determine the fate and transport of leached components, predominantly salts, into groundwater. Together, these provide a measure of the extent to which a land mass is affected by leachate migration from the deposit. To determine the exact boundary between regions of acceptable and unacceptable risk to the environment, we use Ecological Risk Assessment concepts. In this way it is possible to obtain a time dependent affected land footprint which could be used as an indicator of the environmental impact of solid waste management practices. This information can be included in a set of environmental criteria which form the basis of an overall environmental impact assessment, using tools such as Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The value of LCA is that its structure is consistent with accepted models of environmental decision making, where different approaches to valuation in impact assessment assist in prioritizing impacts on the basis of their perceived significance. The proposed affected land footprint, metric represents a significant improvement over current LCA impact indicators for solid waste management practices.Amsterdam Water Supply produces 70 million m(3) drinking water per annum in its Leiduin plant and is considering increasing the plant capacity to 83 million m3 per annum. The existing plant is a conventional surface water treatment plant. For capacity expansion, two alternative treatment schemes, each using reverse osmosis, are being considered. In these considerations, environmenta
l impact plays an important role. Environmental impact of the plant was assessed with life cycle analysis. The total impact for annual production from the existing and the two future alternative schemes are 2.89E+04, 3.65E+04 and 3.44E+04 eco-points respectively. The significant impact contributors are the use of conventional energy, softening and the granular activated carbon process. Impact reduction up to 73% may be achieved by the use of 100% green energy, the use of an alternative chemical [Na2CO3 in place of NaOH] in the softening process and doubling the carbon run time.Cruise tourism continues to be a major international growth area. In terms of achieving sustainable tourism it is, therefore, a subsector within which socio-economic, cultural and environmental considerations need to be continually analysed, addressed and monitored. The environmental impacts of cruise tourism are categorised in this paper and potential strategies that can be employed by both cruise line operators and cruise tourism destinations are explored. Secondary evidence of action by both parties suggests that the industry is taking a number of belated positive steps. However, decision-makers in cruise tourism destinations, particularly those outside North America, need to work closely with operators to facilitate both integrated waste management and intergenerational and intra-societal equity rather than merely accept the prospect of short-term economic gain. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Packaging is necessary in a,world dominated by marketing-based economies, which rely on it for the safe delivery of profitable products. It is different from many other functions because packaging has two faces and each face demands a special marketing approach. Also necessary to appreciate is that in the very marketing of all products packaging plays a vital part, yet it is still often treated as a necessary evil and is often used on an expediency basis by product manufacturers. Even the packaging manufacturers themselves still fall into the trap of providing what is asked for instead of designing what is really needed. To describe packaging as in a world of its own is no pretension,for wherever natural or manufactured products are produced, packaging is needed to contain, preserve and protect them in the journey to the market place. Food, drink, clothing, light engineering goods, china and glass, medicines and household chemicals - in all those industries it is packaging made of paper and board, glass, plastic and metal that serves them. The importance of properly designed packaging lies in the fact that it must meet the need for protection of the product from the hazards of damage and deterioration. At the same time it must also provide identification and at-tractive presentation and meet the appropriate environmental criteria, Copyright (C) 2002 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.Despite the fact that the structure and technology of most modem wind turbines differs little over a wide range of power ratings, results from existing life-cycle assessments of their energy and CO2 intensity show considerable variations. While the range of energy intensities reflects economics of scale, their scatter is due to discrepancies in the energy contents of materials and the analyses' methodology and scope. Furthermore, energy intensities depend crucially on the country of manuf
acture, turbine recycling or overhaul after the service life, and the choice of tower material. In addition, CO2 intensities vary with national fuel mixes. Measures of life-cycle energy or CO2 emissions can be employed in policy and planning, especially for comparative risk and sustainability assessments, and source switching and capacity growth scenarios. If these measures are to assist decision-making, uncertainties in life-cycle assessments should be minimised by compliance to a standardised methodology, and by use of input-output-based hybrid techniques. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Data uncertainty issues have constrained the widespread acceptance of life-cycle analysis (LCA) and related methods. This is particularly important in the LCA of fuels due to the wide range of available feedstocks and processing options. Despite recent attempts at standardization, there remain persistent doubts about the general validity of LCA results, often due to uncertainties about data quality. This paper demonstrates the application of possibility theory as a tool for handling life-cycle inventory data imprecision for the case of the net energy balance of coconut methyl ester (CME) as a biodiesel transport fuel. Results derived using a possibililistic computation are contrasted with those arrived at by probabilistic (Monte Carlo) simulation. The two approaches yield comparable results but possibilistic modelling offers significant advantages with respect to computational efficiency. The net energy balance of CME is estimated to be approximately 36 MJ kg(-1), significantly higher than the 28 MJ kg(-1) net energy typical of rapeseed oil methyl ester (RME) relevant to the U.K. Copyright (C) 2002 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.This paper presents the process life cycle approach to the problem for retrofit of heat exchanger network (HEN). The main objective of HEN retrofit is to find the most economic way of reducing energy consumption in an existing network. However the HEN retrofit has to be considered in the life cycle context, i.e. simulation, conceptual design and detailed design. The first step when performing such a study is the extraction of data from an existing flowsheet to use in the conceptual design of HEN retrofit. The second step is to perform the HEN retrofit, i.e. to find a modification that reduces the energy consumption in the most economic way. Once an option for reduction in heating demand has been identified, the detailed design on heat exchangers that require additional area is performed. It is possible to automate these steps due to advances in software technology and a better understanding of the problem. Typically each step in HEN retrofit project is performed using individual software. The transition from one step to another requires both the flow of data and of knowledge. In our work, a set of rules and logic is used to automatically transfer knowledge between the steps. A design engineer is in complete control both within a step and during the transition from one step to another. A brief description of the existing methods will also be discussed. This will help to understand the strength of the proposed automated procedure in the context of life cycle analysis. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In this paper the value of the exergetic life cycle assessment (ELCA) has been analysed. The ELCA uses th
e framework of the life cycle assessment (LCA) and can be seen as the exergy analysis of a complete life cycle. The value of the ELCA besides the LCA has been discussed. It is shown that the ELCA is a more appropriate instrument to quantify the environmental problem of the depletion of natural resources. This has been tested with a case study of different waste wood treatment routes. In the first model waste wood is co-combusted in a coal power plant, while in the second model waste wood has been used to produce chipboard. The ELCA shows that the production of chipboard gives less depletion of natural resources. Furthermore, in model 3 and 4 coal for generating electricity has been replaced by green wood. The ELCA shows that replacing coal by green wood gives less depletion of natural resources than replacing the waste wood with green wood, while the waste wood is used for generating electricity. However, comparing the four models it can be seen that replacing coal by green wood causes more wasting of natural resources, while the depletion of natural resources decreases. It can be concluded that the ELCA can be used in two ways. First, the ELCA can be used to determine the consumption of natural resources and second, the ELCA can be used to calculate the depletion of natural resources. In the latter case, a distinction has been made between renewable and non-renewable exergy resources. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Environmental consequences from sanitary landfill as well as incineration with power generation were compared in terms of life cycle analysis (LCA) for Laohukeng Waste-disposal Plant that is under consideration in Shenzhen. A variety of differences will be resulted from the two technologies, from which the primary issue that affects the conclusion is if the compensatory phase in power generation can be properly considered in the boundary definition of LCA. Upon the compensatory phase is taken into account in the landfill system, the negative environmental consequences from the landfill will be more significant than those from the incineration with power generation, although the reversed results can be obtained as the compensatory phase is neglected. In addition, mitigation of environmental impacts through the pollutant treatment in the incineration process will be more effective than in the landfill process.This article challenges certain tenets of the theories of reflexive law and ecological modernization. Although farsighted prevention-oriented and structural changes are needed, some proponents of these theories argue that the very industries and firms that create environmental problems can through continuous institutional learning, the application of life-cycle analysis, dialogue and networks with stakeholders, and implementation of "environmental management systems" be transformed into sustainable industries and firms. Although useful, these reforms are insufficient. It is not marginal or incremental changes that are needed for sustainability but rather major product, process, and system transformations-often beyond the capacity of the dominant industries and firms. This article also questions the alleged failure of regulation to stimulate needed technological changes and identifies the conditions under which innovation for sustainability can occur Finally, it discusses differences in needed policies fo
r industrialized and developing countries.The consideration of environmental issues in manufacturing has taken on increased importance in terms of global competitiveness. Life-cycle assessment tools enable analysis of the environmental efficiency of industrial processes. Often these focus on the product, with standardized or customized data provided on current processing practice. Environmental management of the total materials cycle must provide tools to evaluate the effect of changes in processing or material substitutions on a global basis, where materials use, reuse, component remanufacture, and materials recycling can be considered and the overall costs and impacts assessed. In this article, two examples of net-shape processing are discussed from this total materials cycle perspective.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was carried out in order to compare the environmental impacts of five alternative treatment scenarios of sewage sludge in the French context. The scenarios were composed of one main process (incineration, agricultural land application, or landfill), one stabilization process (lime stabilization, composting, or anaerobic digestion) and transports of sludge. Average data on literature, real site data and simulation result were used for accomplishing the assessment. The indicator results of environmental impact were normalized by reference contributions of one person in the West-Europe over I year in order to better understand their relative magnitude. The normalization results were finally weighted to give one aggregated result of the comparative LCA with sensitivity analysis on the weighing factors. The study result showed: the combination of anaerobic digestion and agricultural land application was most environmentally friendly tanks to less emissions and less consumption of energy; the most important substances contributing to human toxicity and ecotoxicity were heavy metals released from the atmospheric effluent of incineration and from the sludge applied to agricultural fields; finally appropriate tools were required to control the non-point-source pollutants like the methane of the dispersed landfill gas and the effluent gases of transport vehicles. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Bagasse is the fibrous residue generated during sugar production and can be a desirable feedstock for fuel ethanol production. Excess bagasse left after satisfying the mills' energy requirements can be used in a bioconvesion process to make ethanol. A life cycle assessment (LCA) was conducted to quantify the environmental benefits of diverting excess bagasse to ethanol production as opposed to disposing it through the current practice of open-field burning. The LCA results demonstrated lower net values for the ethanol scenario for the following: carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons (except methane), SOx, NOx, particulates, carbon dioxide, methane, and fossil energy consumption. Reduced carbon dioxide and methane emissions for the ethanol scenario also lower its greenhouse potential. Additional drivers are the lower values observed for the following impact assessment categories for the ethanol scenario: depletion of natural resources, air acidification potential. eutrophication potential, human toxicity potential, and air odor potential. Specifically, deployment of the bioethanol option, due to its significantly lower greenhouse poten
tial, can be facilitated via the Clean Development Mechanism, as specified under the Kyoto Protocol. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) may well be powering millions of cars by 2020. At its end-of-life, each car will have a redundant PEMFC stack. The EU vehicle waste directive sets tough recycling and re-use requirements for the cars of the future. The criteria for assessing the end-of-life options are based on technical, economic and environmental feasibility. The optimum strategy will require stack dismantling and separation of the major components. Steel and aluminium parts can enter the general recycling stream, but the membrane electrode assembly and bipolar plates will require a specialised recycling process. One option is to shred the MEA, dissolve and recover the membrane, burn off the carbon, and recycle the platinum and ruthenium catalysts using solvent extraction. The heaviest part of the PEMFC stack is the bipolar plates. If carbon fibre based, the bipolar plates could enter a fluidised bed recovery process where the constituent materials are recovered for re-use. The EU vehicle waste directive sets high recycling targets based on weight, and thus it is strongly advisable for the relatively heavy bipolar plates to be recycled, even though energy recovery by incineration may be a cheaper and possible more environmentally benign option. The EU vehicle directive will put pressure on the end-of-life options for the PEMFC stack to be weighted towards recycling and re-use; it will have a significant impact on the design and end-of-life options for the PEMFC. The overall effect of this pressure on the end-of-life treatment of the PEMFC and the consequential contribution to environmental life cycle impacts is discussed. It is concluded that a range of external pressures influence the selection of a suitable end-of-life management strategy, and while opportunities for re-use of components are limited, all components of the PEMFC stack could in principle be recycled. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.An extensive R&D project-Life Cycle Assessment as a Tool for the Management of Environmental Issues in the Finnish Metals Industry-was carried out as part of the Finnish Environmental Cluster Research Programme 1998-2000. Life cycle inventory (LCI) data of the main product groups-steel plates and coils, steel bars. steel wires. stainless steel, copper, nickel, zinc and aluminium were produced and company specific environmental impact assessments were made based on these. The LCI data was interpreted by an impact assessment model based on decision analysis and methods used in life cycle impact assessment. The results revealed that the Finnish metals industry is far from homogenous as regards its environmental impacts. The life cycle assessment (LCA) data was also used to identify important areas of environmental protection needed in the industry from the standpoint of eco-efficiency. Notwithstanding the current good level of environmental protection in the Finnish metals industry, reduction of energy use, deposits, sludges, dusts and emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and metals needs to continue. It is possible to upgrade eco-efficiency by producing more metals and by-products from smaller amounts of raw materials and by recovering w
astes. Increasing further the reusability and recyclability of metals is also a desirable trend. In the long term, eco-efficiency can best be improved by decreasing the use of metals by developing and better utilising their properties and by increasing the life times of metallic end products. There is also a need for R&D work on land use and landscape issues, as well as the environmental impacts of metals, which cannot currently be properly handled in LCAs. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.We present an assessment of installing a regional heating and cooling system in the Nishi(West)-Shinjuku area of Tokyo, Japan. In this assessment, we estimate the CO2 payback-time, when air source heat-pumps (ASHP) are replaced with a ground-source heat-pump (GSHP) system. We calculate CO2 emissions from transportation of the cooling tower, materials for the underground heat exchanger, and the digging loads and transportation loads incurred when the GSHP system is installed to replace the air source cooling system. The total CO2 emission from the installation of the GSHP system was estimated to be 67,701t-CO2, with 87% of the CO2 emissions resulting from the digging process. CO2 emissions from the operation of the GSHP system were estimated from the total energy-efficiency of the system and the heating and cooling demand in Nishi-Shinjuku area. Using the GSHP system, 33,935t-CO2 would be emitted per year. We estimate that using the GSHP system would result in a reduction of 54% of the CO2 emissions, or 39,519t-CO2 per year. From these results, the CO2 payback-time for replacing the conventional ASHP in the 1 km(2) studied region with the GSHP system is assessed to be 1.7 years. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents a hierarchic framework for environmentally conscious design. The framework integrates both product designers and stakeholders to evaluate not only the product features but also its environmental burden. In evaluating the product's burden, a life cycle assessment of the product is conducted through input-output analysis so that a comprehensive inventory of the product's actions and reactions to the environment could be documented. The analytic hierarchy procedure (AHP) is used to develop priority indices for customer requirements to highlight key features that must be present in the product. Subsequently, the quality function deployment is used to match design requirements to customer requirements. A cost-effective design plan is then finally developed. This framework adopts a systemic approach and ensures that environmentally conscious products are designed and manufactured. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.Regional differences on the strategy against crisis to environment make a common frame invisible to promote the effective directions toward significant reduction of total mass requirement or dematerialization. This overview summarizes the intimate discussions, proposals and advisable comments at the first US-Japan Workshop on the Environmentally Benign Manufacturing and Materials Processing at Hawaii on the October 5th, 2001. in order to integrate the state-of-the-art research activities in both countries. In the discussion over the recyclable materials, value/cost-quality diagram is used to redefine the recycling process and to characterize various processes in the environmentally benign man
ufacturing. Influence of light-weight material selection on the dematerialization is discussed to find out a new direction. Importance of the trade-off-balancing on the high performance for long term use is reconsidered to search for a solution in the design of innovative manufacturing and materials processing. Mass flow analysis in the life cycle assessment is recognized as a tool to make eco-system design for industrial ecology, Several issues for further research are also argued to promote the related activities to the environmentally benign manufacturing and materials processing.Based on the review of ten years progress of ecomaterials' research and development, a barrier free processing is proposed as a next step of ecomaterials. In the first place, the development of ecomaterial is reviewed. The concept of ecomaterial has been widely spread in the design of materials as life-cycle thinking and has been realized in the various area as a form of consumer material, commodity material and energy-transmission material with the keyword of "hazardous substance free", "green environmental profile", "higher recyclability" and "higher materials efficiency". The importance of the connection of the ecomaterial with DfE (design for the environment) is emphasized as the next step, The existence of the barrier in the material processing technology between ecomaterial-selection and DfF is pointed out, The barrier on the input-flow of the process makes it difficult to use of environmental friendly raw materials. The barrier on the output-flow of the process prevents it from the flexible formability to give the shape to realize DIE, In order to solve those problems, a new research project, named as "Study on the Barrier-Free Processing of Materials for Life-Cycle Design for Environment", has been launched.In this study, the environmental impact of recycling portable nickel-cadraium (NiCd) batteries in Sweden is evaluated. A life cycle assessment approach was used to identify life cycle activities with significant impact, the influence of different recycling rates and different time boundaries for emissions of landfilled metals. Excluding the user phase of the battery, 65% of the primary energy is used in the manufacture of batteries while 32% is used in the production of raw materials. Metal emissions from batteries to water originate (96-98%) from landfilling and incineration. The transportation distance for the collection of batteries has no significant influence on energy use and emissions. Batteries manufactured with recycled nickel and cadmium instead of virgin metals have 16% lower primary energy use. Recycled cadmium and nickel metal require 46 and 75% less primary energy, respectively, compared with extraction and refining of virgin metal. Considering an infinite time perspective, the potential metal emissions are 300-400 times greater than during the initial 100 years. From an environmental perspective, the optimum recycling rate for NiCd batteries tends to be close to 100%. It may be difficult to introduce effective incitements to increase the battery collection rate. Cadmium should be used in products that are likely to be collected at the end of their life, otherwise collection and subsequent safe storage in concentrated form seems to offer the best solution to avoid dissipative losses. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.I
n the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, standards for risk assessment of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) have been set. The criteria and information basis for the risk assessment of GMOs have been modified by the EU Directive 2001/18/EC. Various approaches to further improve the criteria for environmental risk assessment of GMOs are described in this study. Reports on the ecological impacts of the cultivation of certain non-transgenic crop plants with novel or improved traits as analogy models to transgenic plants showed that the effects of agricultural practice can be at least equally important as the effects of gene transfer and invasiveness, although the latter currently play a major role in risk assessment of transgenic crops. Based on these results the applicability of the methodology of 'Life Cycle Analysis (LCA)' for genetically modified plants in comparison with conventionally bred and organically grown crop plants was evaluated. The methodology was regarded as applicable with some necessary future improvements. In current projects, the assessment of toxicology and allergenicity of GM crops are analysed, and suggestions for standardization are developed. Based on results and recommendations from these efforts there are still the challenges of how to operationalize the precautionary principle and how to take into account ecologically sensitive ecosystems, including centres of origin and centres of genetic diversity. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.Long term growth and well being of the chemical industry requires economically and ecologically conscious process engineering. Traditional process engineering methods fall short of meeting this need due to their treating the environment as being secondary to economic objectives. Life cycle assessment and design methods broaden the scope of traditional methods, but focus primarily on the environmental impact of emissions while ignoring the contribution of ecological products and services. Taking nature for granted could provide misleading results since natural products and processes are a significant contributor to all industrial products and processes. Methods from systems ecology do account for ecological inputs, but ignore the impact of emissions. This paper presents an original approach for the joint analysis of industrial and ecological systems. This approach considers inputs from both ecological and economic resources, as well as the impact of emissions. It uses thermodynamics to exploit the synergy between methods from process systems engineering, systems ecology, and life cycle assessment to overcome the shortcomings of methods from each field. The approach is based on the fact that growth and sustenance of both industrial and ecological processes are limited by the available energy and its conversion to useful work. Thus, the embodied energy (emergy), that is, the energy used directly or indirectly to make a product or service is a thermodynamic measure of ecological investment or cost, while exergy loss provides a holistic measure of the impact of emissions. Together, emergy and exergy analysis can provide insight into the environmental performance and sustainability of the industrial process or product. The proposed framework is broadly applicable to assist decision making in chemical and other engineering tasks, Challenges and research opportunit
ies for making this framework practical are identified. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.A novel Life-Cycle Assessment model (Fire-LCA) has been defined for the determination of the environmental impact of measures taken to attain a high level of fire safety. This study, which represents the first application of this LCA model, concentrates on a comparison between a TV with an enclosure manufactured with a flame retardant (FR) plastic (V0-rated high impact polystyrene, HIPS, typical for the US market) and one manufactured with a non-flame retardant (HB-rated HIPS, typical for the European market). A fire model has been defined based on international statistics, which indicate that use of V0 rated enclosure material essentially removes the risk of TV fires while approximately 165 TV fires occur per million TVs in Europe each year where the enclosure material is breached. The application of the model indicates that emissions of some key species (such as dibenzodioxins and PAH) are actually lower for the TV with the FR enclosure than for the TV with the NFR enclosure. This has direct reprercussions for the assessment of the environmental impact of the FR TV relative to that of the NFR TV. Finally, when considering the risk associated with the use of flame retardants, it is also important to consider the risk associated with fires. Based on the in-depth analysis of available fire statistics, conducted as a part of this study, it has been estimated that as many as 160 people may die each year in Europe as a direct result of TV fires and as many as 2000 may be injured in the same period. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.We analyse the wood and concrete designs of the Walludden building described by Borjesson et al. (Energy Policy 28 (2000) 575) in terms of their embodied energy, employing an environmentally extended input-output framework in a tiered hybrid life-cycle assessment. and in a structural path analysis. We illustrate the complexity of the inter-industry supply chains underlying the upstream energy requirements for the building options. Land demonstrate that higher-order inputs are difficult to capture in a conventional process analysis. Our Calculations show that Borjesson and Gustavsson's estimates of energy requirements and greenhouse gas emissions are underestimated by a factor of about 2, and that corresponding greenhouse gas balances are positive at about 30 t C-eq. Nevertheless, Borjesson and Gustavsson's general result the concrete-framed building causing higher emissions still holds. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Current methods for life-cycle assessment are only partially in line with the precautionary principle.Two examples are considered in this work in order to show possible settings for decision making in the strategic field of energy: transport vehicles and wastewater treatment plant that are powered by a fuel cell, The environmental impact, measured by evaluating hydrogen life cycle as fuel, varies depending on the source of hydrogen, the process, and the complexity of the productive chain. Nowadays, starting from this point of view, it is possible to get a lot more benefits when hydrogen is directly produced in situ from renewable sources of energy and it is used to make a fuel cell work, as an alternative to an external electric energy source, Future work must 
be focalized to decrease technological development gap between fuel cells and clean hydrogen extraction, before use of fuel cell would be massive. (C) 2001 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The environmental impact of three different automotive paint scenarios: (a) solventborne primer-waterborne basecoat-solventborne clearcoat, (b) powder primer-waterborne basecoat-solventborne clearcoat, and (c) powder primer-waterborne basecoat-powder clearcoat were investigated. Scenarios (a) and (b) are in production by the U.S. automotive industry and scenario (c) is a potential future goal. The scenarios modeled assume a greenfield plant, considering a mid-size sport utility vehicle that is painted in two separate colors. A complete life cycle analysis of the materials and processes was carried out using commercial state-of-art software. The analysis showed that a transition from solvent-based to powder-based coatings for the primer and clearcoat leads to an improvement in the environmental performance of the paint processes. The decrease in total energy consumption, water usage, and sludge generation is 22%, 34%, and 27%, respectively. The paint scenario comprised of powder primer-waterborne basecoat-powder clearcoat will minimize the environmental impacts of the painting processes for all the metrics examined in this study.(T)he economics of renewable energy are the largest barrier to renewable penetration. Nevertheless, the strong desire to reduce environmental emissions is considered a great support for renewable energy sources. In this paper, a full analysis for the cost of the kWh of electricity generated from different systems actually used in Egypt is presented. Also renewable energy systems are proposed and their costs are analyzed. The analysis considers the external cost of emissions from different generating systems. A proposed large scale PV plant of 3.3 MW, and a wind farm 11.25 MW grid connected at different sites are investigated. A life cycle cost analysis for each system was performed using the present value criterion. The comparison results showed that wind energy generation has the lowest cost, followed by a combined cycle-natural gas fired system. A photovoltaic system still uses comparatively expensive technology for electricity generation; even when external costs are considered the capital cost of photovoltaic needs to be reduced by about 60% in order to be economically competitive. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The aim of the study was to assess the amount of energy input and emissions of CO2, CO, NOx, SOx, N2O, HC, CH4 and particles discharge to the environment in association to the following stages of a forwarder's life cycle; (1) material premanufacturing, (2) fabrication of individual components, (3) assembly of the vehicle, and (4) associated transports. The premanufacturing phase accounted for 65% of the total energy consumption, 70% of the CO2 emissions, 95% of CO emissions and 65% of the NOx emissions. Transports showed the smallest contribution to the environmental impact among the forwarder life cycle phases examined. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The elaborate characterisation. and specification of materials used for decorating statues and buildings can be achieved by means of complementary methods of inve
stigation such as analytical light and electron microscopy, thermal analysis, X-ray and neutron diffractometry, and various types of spectroscopy. The results cannot only reveal the historically relevant exploration and refinement techniques of natural resources, but also the types of application on different supports. In addition deterioration and erosion processes can be monitored and eventually conservation and restoration procedures may be improved. Here, we present results of investigations on materials, i.e. pigments which have been applied for the decoration of Nefertete's bust and-practically in the same period-for the illumination of the so-called Talatat blocks of the then dismantled temple erected at Karnak under the reign of Akhenaten. Special attention was paid to the blue pigments, which-in both cases-could be identified unambiguously by means of X-ray diffractometry and Raman spectroscopy with the so-called Egyptian Blue, CaCuSi4O10. Other materials used in the polychromatic decorations are iron oxides (red), amorphous carbon/quartz (yellow) as well as the organic composite soot/bee wax mixtures (black). Obviously these mentioned pigments are chemically inert and therefore still visible, whereas other pigments such as green may have vanished more or less completely. In summary our investigations confirm and further reveal the skill of the Egyptian artisans and may elucidate a more detailed "life cycle analysis" of the used materials, spreading from the natural resources to the production and application and they finally may yield some useful hints for the advancement of our present reconstruction of historical developments in Egypt. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.This paper presents a method to calculate economic and ecological indicators to evaluate waste in regard to material recycling. As material recycling is still a preferred option for closing the loop of EEE it is important to have an indicator which offers the feasibility to evaluate the benefits and burdens of different recycling routes according to the contained materials and elements. Depending on the description of the economic and ecological potential of waste the requirements and calculation method will be discussed.The intelligent application of electronics may lead to reduced energy consumption and reduced environmental impacts, although electronics may have considerable environmental impacts and energy consumption during production and use. A LCA study, conducted together with Continental AG and Motorola, demonstrates this fact and points out how these effects can be quantified by suitable modeling and calculation. Subject-matter of this study was the comparison of the automotive starter-generator ISAD with a conventional system including separate starter and generator.Commercial and industrial activities are being found to have significant effects on natural ecological systems, increasing the importance of evaluating these activities in relation to the earth's "carrying capacity". Several types of environmental impact commonly associated with business activities have been selected,for evaluation. These include global warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, acidification, eutrophication, photochemical ozone formation, resource depletion, human toxicity, and ecotoxicity. For each type of impact, numerous sources of information have been u
sed to estimate the carrying capacity at the scale appropriate for the impact. Various scientific models also have been employed. The carrying capacity estimates are a primary input to the Sustainability Target Method (STM), an environmental performance metric that relates carrying capacity to individual products and services. The STM is a basis for using carrying capacity along with product impact and value to provide a practical sustainability target for businesses.The adoption of Information Technology (IT) affects energy demand. One component of this larger issue is changes in energy use driven by e-commerce. This work undertakes a case study of energy consumption in sales and distribution via b2c e-commerce and conventional retail for the Japanese book sector. The four factors considered are: packaging, transport from publisher to home or bookstore, consumer travel to and from the bookstore, and building consumption at home or bookstore. Results of the simulation of total energy use indicate that E-commerce consumes slightly more than traditional retailing, basically due to additional packaging. Although one might expect that substitution of personal automobile travel for courier services would favor e-commerce, the difference is small due to the multi-purpose use of cars. Energy use in bookstores is very similar to that for consumers making an online purchase at home. While overall consumption for both systems is quite similar, the structure of energy use is very different, suggesting new priorities for strategizing energy-efficiency. Important factors influencing the energy use of b2c E-commerce include packaging, loading factors of courier trucks, number of trips/delivery, and residential energy consumption.Green Design and Manufacturing is concerned to be the most important technology to realize sustainable development of manufacturing industry at present, but the lack of efficient evaluating tool to assess the environment impact of products' whole life cycle has become the bottleneck of green products' design and manufacturing technology. In addition, it can be found that most LCA tools cannot work together with, disassembly analysis; as a result, the conclusions of LCA sometimes are unconvincing. In this paper, at first, a series of model were built to describe and analysis the life cycle environment impact of products, such as the function model of life cycle environment impact assessment system, products' life cycle process tree model, information. describing model, and products' retirement decision simulation model, et al. In the information-describing model, by the use of object-oriented technology, it is convenient to define and describe the product life cycle environment characteristics. Moreover, in the retirement decision simulation model, Directed Graph Theory was used to describe the complex product disassembly structure, and thus the disassembly sequence and disassembly depth can be got easily. Based on the above models, the assessment system integrates the disassembly/recycle assessment and Life Cycle Assessment, and thus the evaluation result is more exact and practicable. Finally, a frame of Green Design Decision Supporting system was proposed And we are endeavoring to develop the software tool based on this frame.Industrial and commercial activities are being found to have significant effects on natural ecologica
l systems, making it increasingly important to evaluate the environmental aspects of these activities in relation to the earth's "carrying capacity". The Sustainability Target Method (STM) utilizes carrying capacity estimates and economic information to provide a practical sustainability target for individual businesses and products. The carrying capacity is combined with economic and life cycle inventory data to determine the relative indicator Resource Productivity for environmental performance and the absolute indicator Eco-Efficiency for sustainability. The STM is applied to evaluate the production of common materials related to electronics products and the generation of electrical energy using various fossil fuel sources. The results are compared to two other methods.Environmental impacts associated with the manufacture of microchips are characterized through material and energy analysis of inputs into processes in the production chain. The total weight of secondary fossil fuel and chemical inputs to produce and use a single 2-gram 32MB DRAM chip are estimated at 1,600 grams and 72 grams, respectively. The production chain yielding silicon wafers from quartz uses 160 times the energy required for typical silicon, indicating that purification can be energy intensive. Due to its extremely low-entropy, organized structure, the materials intensity of a microchip is orders of magnitude higher than that of "traditional" goods. Future analysis of semiconductor and other low entropy high-tech goods needs to include the use of secondary materials, especially for purification.Ecological aspects have gained increasing attention during recent decades in urban land use planning and site development. However, relatively little attention has been paid so far to mass and energy flows of urban infrastructure and utility systems in particular, in spite of their significant contribution to the total mass. In the first part of this paper, the mass of water mains and sewers is, quantified in relation to the mass of buildings. The second part of the paper deals with the development of the stock of water mains and sewers from the past to the future. Future rehabilitation needs in terms of annual mileage of pipelines reaching the end of their service life are forecast with a cohort survival model. In the third part of the paper, some preliminary results are presented on the mass and energy flows of water mains and sewers. Conventional life cycle assessment methodology is applied to pipelines of different materials.This contribution focuses on the importance of sustainability in the building sector. The underlying idea being that sustainability and durability must be considered jointly. Different models are presented to determine the degree of sustainability, focussing on: the degradation factor, life cycle assessment, the Delft ladder of priorities, high-grade applications, design for recycling, design for disassembly, and the ecocost-value ratio. Examples are given of case studies in which these models have been applied successfully.Sustainability is becoming an increasing influence on the way buildings and infrastructure are designed, constructed and occupied. With its emphasis on the 'triple bottom line' issues of environmental protection, economic growth and social progress, the principle of sustainability forms the basis of an increasing number of mand
atory and voluntary initiatives within the EC and its Member States. Within the UK, sustainable development, (and its implications for energy use, materials, resources and social equity), is encouraged by government through the use of sectoral strategies and its incorporation in government policy relating to construction. Within this policy context, this paper will consider the UK cement and concrete sector on a number of levels from compliance with European and national legislation to voluntary improvements to manufacturing performance. For example, the industry has been proactive in its early uptake of environmental management systems such as EMAS and ISO 14000 and its development of life cycle assessment of products. More recently, these have been extended to the inclusion of sustainability, and the development of company and sectoral sustainability strategies. However, with the construction industry producing almost 20% of the UK's waste and the occupation of buildings accounting for about 50% of UK CO2, this paper will also focus on efforts to reduce the burden on UK plc via good practice using cement and concrete in construction. There will be a discussion of the use of fabric energy storage capacity of concrete to reduce or remove the need for air conditioning in buildings, recycled or waste materials within concrete and various methods to reduce waste.During the design process of heating and air conditioning systems, the designer must analyse various factors in order to determine the best design options. Therefore, the environmental aspects of a product should be included in the analysis and selection of design options if an environmentally - aware design is to be produced. If one wishes to assess a product's environmental impact, its whole life cycle must be studied. The Life Cycle Assessment (or LCA) methodology is an example of one kind of environmental analysis which included the entire life-cycle of a product. However, this method has some limitations. It is unable to tackle the total environmental impact on a number of different levels (e.g. materials, energy, waste) at the same time. To overcome some problems in the LCA method, an alternative method, the so-called Eco-Indicator method has been proposed. Since it is based on a weighting method, only a single score for the total environmental impact is calculated. The application of this method for the optimisation of heating and air-conditioning systems is presented in this paper.There are many scales that can be employed to calculate net greenhouse gas emissions from bioenergy systems, ranging from single point source (stack gas) measurement, to full, multi-layered life cycle analyses considering all of the inputs and outputs throughout the economy. At an appropriate scale within these extremes, a method can be selected to support verification activities related to project-based trading of greenhouse gas emissions. The boundaries of the analysis must be carefully selected in order to meet the twin goals of the verification activity: (1) to meet scientific standards for emission balance quantification, and (2) to meet cost-effectiveness criteria of the emission trading community. A methodology is proposed for verifying greenhouse gas reductions arising from substitution of bioenergy fuel for fossil fuel in electric generation. The method utilizes an incremental progression t
hrough the fuel life cycle, pausing at each level to evaluate the potential benefits and uncertainties of a next-level expansion. A case study is analyzed for greenhouse gas benefits of switchgrass substitution for coal combustion in an existing electric generation facility. Using the incremental technique to set boundaries on the analysis, replacement of coal with switchgrass is found to provide a reduction of net greenhouse gas emissions at a rate of 102 g CO2-equivalent per million Joules (g/MJ) of switchgrass input. At full production, co-firing 5 percent switchgrass, the emission reduction would total more than 305,500 metric tons CO2-eq annually. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In several cases, life cycle assessment has been used as one supplementary tool in the planning of soil. remediation. Three life cycle assessment based software tools for soil remediation planning are compared. One example of soil treatment in a bioreactor is investigated by using the software "Umweltbilanzierung von Altlastensanierungsverfahren" (version 1999). The decision support tool "risk reduction - environmental merit - costs" (REC or RMK, internet version released in 2000) combines risk analysis, cost analysis with an approach, which is similar to life cycle assessment. The software "Umweltbilanzierung von Altlastensanierungsverfahren" ("Environmental balancing of soil remediation measures") of the German state Baden-Wilrttemberg compares the environmental burdens of the remediation with the results of a risk assessment. The software "Environmental/economic evaluation and the optimising of contaminated site remediation" analyses "environmental costs" and "Environmental benefits" with an life cycle assessment approach. The main innovative part in the three software products is the calculation of potential environmental burdens (Screening life cycle assessments) of soil remediation measures. The degree of transparency of the three different life cycle assessment approaches is discussed.This paper focuses on the use of Geographic. Information Systems (GIS) within the City of Los Angles (LA) municipal government in the context of eco-industrial redevelopment of brownfield sites. LA, like many cities around the world, has implemented a Brownfields Program to address the problem of urban blight arising from environmental impairment. The program has now expanded to consider eco-industrial concepts. The increasing and dual interests of quality job generation through industrial development and community-focused environmental protection have initiated investigative efforts on eco-industrial redevelopment by the City's Brownfields Team. Although the definition. and understanding of eco-industrial development varies, the City's efforts revolve around a broadly interpreted encouragement of networks among businesses to achieve maximum economic and environmental performance. This may include waste exchange, sustainable design, pollution prevention, service sharing, and life cycle analysis. The "Industrial Symbiosis" park in Kalundborg, Denmark, while exemplary, does not provide a model directly relevant to LA, with its different mix of industries and scarcity of undeveloped large tracts of land. Instead, the Brownfields Program may adapt the traditional model to its dense urban fabric by facilitating waste and materials exchanges among existing bu
sinesses and using redeveloping brownfields to fill-in the gaps in potential eco-industrial relationships. This approach extends the eco-industrial concept to, redevelopment by involving brownfields themselves as an integral component of the reclamation, recycling and reuse process-a scenario that is highly relevant to densifying urban settings with intermittent patterns of decline. The paper illustrates how demonstration GIS analyses on target areas will assess existing industrial conditions, facilitate optimal matching of businesses, and inform policy making for future sites.Within the context of sustainable development, it is important to always consider the impact of activities, such as the preparation of brownfield construction sites (subsurface remediation/demolition of buildings), on the environment. In the Federal Republic of Germany, the consideration of environmental impacts, including those resulting from the remediation of contaminated sites, is defined in the German Federal Soil Protection Act. To date, first "isolated" approaches for the environmental balancing of brownfield redevelopment measures exist which are comparable to the life-cycle assessment of industrial products. The Environmental Protection Agency of the Federal State of Baden-Wurttemberg (LfU) has developed a software tool for the environmental balancing of remediation techniques [1]; in Switzerland, investigations concerning the ecological impacts of building rubble disposal exist [2]. An examination or environmental balancing of complete brownfield redevelopment projects (subsurface remediation of the property, demolition of buildings, preparation of the site for new residence) has not been published so far. This may be due to the difficulties in obtaining the extensive data necessary for such a procedure. However, an extensive environmental balancing of brownfield redevelopment projects could be the basis for both an ecological and an economic optimization of brownfield redevelopment. At the research facility for subsurface remediation (VEGAS) at the Universitat Stuttgart, a research project regarding environmental balancing has been started with the aim of extensively balancing brownfield, redevelopment projects under ecological criteria. The main objective of the project is the development of a readily. applicable instrument for the estimation of the ecological impacts during the redevelopment of brownfield sites for construction purposes. This tool should help to determine the ecological consequences of civil works quickly and easily and serve as a basis for an ecological optimization of the projects. In order to reach this aim, numerous project examples are being examined and transferred into available environmental balancing tools. First results of these investigations show that the transport of contaminated soil and building rubble for off-site treatment or disposal has a high impact on the environment, which is reflected by the high total energy consumption and emissions resulting, amongst other things, from the distances to soil washing plants or to plants which recycle building debris. Furthermore, natural area is consumed if the excavated area is filled with clean gravel from a gravel pit or if the contaminated soil is deposited in a landfill. Under ecological criteria, in-situ and on-site remediation techniques have thus far proven to be better m
ethods than off-site techniques. During further investigations, the ecological impacts of new innovative technologies for subsurface remediation will be determined.There is a risk-associated with most things in the world, and all things have a life cycle unto themselves, even brownfields. Many components can be described by a "cycle of life." For example, five such components are life form, chemical, process, activity, and idea, although many more may exist. Brownfields may touch upon several of these life cycles. Each life cycle can be represented as independent software; therefore, a software technology structure is being formulated to allow for the seamless linkage of software products, representing various life-cycle aspects. Because classes of these life cycles tend to be independent of each other, the current research programs and efforts do not have to be revamped; therefore, this unified life-cycle paradigm builds upon current technology and is backward compatible while embracing future technology. Only when two of these life cycles coincide and one impacts the other is there connectivity and a transfer of information at the interface. The current framework approaches (e.g., FRAMES, 3MRA, etc.) have a design that is amenable to capturing 1) many of these underlying philosophical concepts to assure backward compatibility of diverse independent assessment frameworks and 2) linkage communication to help transfer the needed information at the points of intersection. The key effort will be to identify 1) linkage points (i.e., portals) between life cycles; 2) the type and form of data passing between life cycles, and 3) conditions-when life cycles interact and communicate. This paper discusses design aspects associated with a unified life-cycle analysis, which can support not only brownfields but also other types of assessments.A new method for stochastic embodied greenhouse gas emissions modelling of construction materials is proposed. The method progressively integrates process analysis data into a prior probability distribution of embodied greenhouse gas emissions for a given material drawn from a disaggregated expansion of the UK Environmental Accounts. Current analyses of embodied CO2eq emissions, whether performed at the economic sector or individual building system boundary level, are deterministic. Such deterministic models do not allow for the easy analysis of potential CO2eq emissions reductions obtainable through preferential selection of low embodied CO2eq material suppliers within material supply chains. Such analyses are important for assessing the extent to which emissions reductions can be achieved through economic mechanisms which drive preferential selection of low embodied carbon materials back through the supply chain - such as carbon taxes. It is argued that the need for estimating both the uncertainty, and the variability, in embodied CO2eq data is best addressed through the development of a fully stochastic modelling framework, and that such frameworks are methodologically more appropriate for Kyoto Protocol compliance policy formulation.Fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) present a unique challenge with regard to minimising their environmental impact. Apart from the packaging, which can potentially be recycled, the components are designed to be used (for nutrition, to clean, groom etc) and then disposed of to waste
. How can the environmental impact of such products be minimised so as to ensure their sustainable use? The key is the application of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) to understand where the major impacts of products are from cradle to grave (or cradle to cradle in a true sustainability sense) and to incorporate this understanding into product design and supply. In Unilever we recognise the need for good stewardship in the use of resources (i) to utilise ingredients which are safe in use and subsequently degrade to have no harmful environmental impact and (ii) to continuously reduce the environmental of our manufacturing operations. This is eco-efficiency applied to the consumption of materials, energy and water and emissions to land, water and air. In all aspects we seek to continuously improve performance. However the major environmental impacts of our products are in the raw material supply chain (agriculture for foods) and in use and disposal (home and personal care products): These impacts cannot be reduced by business operating alone but only in partnership with key stakeholders. These include suppliers, consumers and key opinion formers. The principle of partnership underpins the three major initiatives: Sustainable Agriculture Sustainable Fisheries Sustainable Water which drive the way to sustainable operations. They all include equally important aspects of corporate social responsibility. In addition, environmental impact considerations are becoming essential criteria with product innovation. "Design for Excellence" is a framework which integrates, inter alia, functionality, delighting consumers and environmental improvements into winning product design.Considerations of cost, high speed, high reliability, high manufacturability and environmental compatibility have to be taken into account in future product development of electronic products. To simulate the environmental compatibility, for example a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) can be performed. An electronic product usually consists of hundreds to thousands of electronic and mechanical components. To perform an LCA is very time consuming if a Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) is done for every single component. This is not needed because the unit processes in the upstream product system in some cases are the same for the ingoing components. In this paper a generic model for LCI is developed and applied to one product system (a business telephone). In this model, the components are divided into main groups and then into sub-groups that result in process modules for unit processes that are similar for the ingoing components. There already exist some models that describe the LCI of electronic products in other ways. This model takes the LCI strategy for the manufacturing phase one step further by identifying which processes constitute part of the common denominator of the upstream product system and proposes which ones should be inventoried first. The developed model makes it possible to obtain a higher resolution and level of understanding compared to earlier models with respect to both components and processes.The Royal Academy of Engineering has funded a project to produce case study teaching material relating sustainable development issues to undergraduate students within the School of Design, Engineering and Computing at Bournemouth University. This is a challenge because it is a complex wi
de-ranging subject matter and there is no unique solution. The principal learning vehicle is an interactive case study approach available to students through the Internet. This paper addresses the specific educational challenges of student-centred web-based learning and teaching strategies applied to the complex subject of sustainable development. Pedagogical components of variety, action, application, interaction, assessment, feedback and evaluation are discussed and related to the learning and teaching of the subject using the web. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) software is included as a teaching tool and its role when interfaced with case studies is discussed.Within recent research trends and an increased interest in targeting not only product modeling but product life cycle modeling as a whole, for feature technology used to support and enhance mainly computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing, new dimensions of requirements arise. Further demands on higher automation, more flexibility, enhanced man-machine interaction and increased built-in knowledge of application systems, require sophisticated (system) interfaces and perhaps even local re-design of feature frameworks currently developed. To combine and relate data from both a product model and a life cycle inventory data base, currently several (in most cases manual, non optimized) methods were employed. However, they usually all ignore the potential of predefined structures and soft technologies now-a-days integrated within a product model. Within the scope of the work described in this paper, the focus will be on studying and discussing the approach to extend a feature model in order to explicitly utilize feature technology within product life cycle assessment. In particular methods and structures for two assessment approaches namely discrete and continuous life cycle assessment will be introduced and discussed.Recent concern for the environment and high competition in globalized markets pose eminent requirements to the producing industry, including small and medium sized enterprises. Envisioned goals of a eco-design combined with a drastical reduction of product development time and increase of customized features of products require new strategies and tools. One solution subject to international investigation is the development of modular products. This approach we enhance by integrating life cycle assessment. Work done in this field was concentrated on developing methods to define either a product's platform architecture or relationships between product modules and documented customer needs within the design analysis of product families. Unfortunately, all of these approaches failed to include a framework to enable also the integration of life cycle assessment. Within the scope of the work described in this paper, we target fundamental problems within the design of product families regarding the integration of life cycle assessment and economic application of information technology, suitable in terms of cost and performance for small and medium sized enterprises. The application field, where first case studies were undertaken and real product models implemented was within the design of parallel-shaft speed reducers.In preparing and justifying transportation policies. it is not uncommon to make use of emission factors. However, such factors are not used for cycling and w
alking because it is assumed that such activities have zero-valued emissions. This work suggests that this is an invalid approach and estimates UK-based carbon dioxide emission factors for such activities for a large number of individuals. When compared to emission factors for automobiles, the results Lire surprising. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In this paper, the authors have calculated the cumulative energy demand and cumulative greenhouse effect for three renewable energy technologies, namely, wind energy, solar photovoltaic, and solar water heating (SWH) system, corresponding to typical climatic conditions in India. The life cycle assessment of these systems (1.5 MW windmill, 35W (P) SPV, 2 m(2) and 100 lt. SWH systems) has yielded the parameters energy yield ratio (EYR) and emission coefficient. EYR for these three technologies are found to be from 9.59 to 31.11, 0.58 to 0.91, and 2.32 to 7.14, respectively. Variation of emission coefficients is from 2.40 to 7.86, 83.72 to 133.10, and 19.88 to 61.06 kg CO2 per GJ delivered from the three technologies, respectively. Their corresponding correlation has been fitted with an algebraic expression having a correlation coefficient of 0.91.In this study the application of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) procedure to the synthesis of methanol is presented. Methanol has been selected for its large potential market and for its several applications in both the energy (either fuel or raw material for gasoline production) and chemical industry (intermediate). Four different synthetic routes have been considered, covering various options from Syngas to recovered carbon dioxide. The results of the LCA study are discussed and compared. Syngas has been produced either from steam- or dry-reforming of methane. In the latter case, CO2 recovered from thermal power plants has been considered for use as oxidant. The results show that heat recovery in the synthesis of methanol from Syngas has a very positive effect reducing the environmental impact and the energy consumption. The combination of steam and CO, reforming of methane produces an important reduction of the environmental impact with energy saving. The less polluting route is CO2 hydrogenation with H-2 produced by water electrolysis using electric energy from non carbon based fuels. The dominance analysis for the environmental index, reveals that the higher impact is on acidification and greenhouse effects. Alternative hydrogen sources have been considered in order to build up the best combination of processes, which responds to the environmental, energetic and economic principles. The results of the LCA study demonstrate the conditions in which it is advantageous the reuse of CO2.The aim of this paper is to demonstrate how life cycle assessment (LCA) can be used to develop strategic policies that can lead to a minimization of the environmental burden resulting from the provision of services or the manufacture, use, and disposal of products within the economy. We accomplish this aim by presenting a case study that evaluates the greenhouse gas contributions of each stage in the life cycle of containerboard packaging and the potential impact on emissions of various policy options available to decision-makers. Our analysis showed that, in general, the most useful strategy was to recycle the used packaging. However, our analysis al
so indicated that when measures are taken to eliminate sources of methane emissions, then recycling is no longer beneficial from a greenhouse perspective. This is because the process energy required in the form of gas and electricity is substantially greater for containerboard manufactured from recycled material than it is for virgin fiber.In recent years, significant attention and emphasis has been given to cleaner and,greener technologies in processes and product manufacturing. This is recognized as a key element in pollution prevention (P2) and development of sustainable strategies. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a systematic approach that enables implementation of cleaner and greener product and process concepts in industry. In recent times substantial progress has been made in the use of LCA for product evaluation and selection. However, its use in cleaner and greener process design and decision-making has not been explored to a great extent. Process design and decision-making are challenging activities that involve trade-off of conflicting objectives, namely costs, technical feasibility and environmental impacts. These conflicting objectives can be analysed at the early design and decision-making stage by considering the full life cycle of a process or a product. A cleaner and greener process is the one that is cost optimal, technically feasible, and environmentally benign. To obtain these results LCA requires various tools and techniques in a systematic methodology. This paper proposes a holistic and integrated methodology GreenPro-I for process/product design by combining the traditional LCA approach with multi-criteria decision-making methods. This methodology is simple and applicable at the early design stage and is more robust against uncertainty in the data. Application of the methodology has been demonstrated in the paper through a urea production case study. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Decision-makers require useful tools, such as indicators, to help them make environmentally sound decisions leading to effective management of hazardous wastes. Four hazardous waste indicators are being tested for such a purpose by several countries within the Sustainable Development Indicator Programme of the United Nations Commission for Sustainable Development. However, these indicators only address the 'downstream' end-of-pipe industrial situation. More creative thinking is clearly needed to develop a wider range of indicators that not only reflects all aspects of industrial production that generates hazardous waste but considers socio-economic implications of the waste as well. Sets of useful and innovative indicators are proposed that could be applied to the emerging paradigm shift away from conventional end-of-pipe management actions and towards preventive strategies that are being increasingly adopted by industry often in association with local and national governments. A methodological and conceptual framework for the development of a core-set of hazardous waste indicators has been developed. Some of the indicator sets outlined quantify preventive waste management strategies (including indicators for cleaner production, hazardous waste reduction/minimization and life cycle analysis), whilst other sets address proactive strategies (including changes in production and consumption patterns, eco-efficiency, eco-inte
nsity and resource productivity). Indicators for quantifying transport of hazardous wastes are also described. It was concluded that a number of the indicators proposed could now be usefully implemented as management tools using existing industrial and economic data. As cleaner production technologies and waste minimization approaches are more widely deployed, and industry integrates environmental concerns at all levels of decision-making, it is expected that the necessary data for construction of the remaining indicators will soon become available.Life cycle analysis is one of the tools in the assessment of the sustainability of technological options. It takes into account all effects on the ecosystem and the population which may endanger the possibilities of current and future generations. However, the main bottleneck in current LCA methodologies is the balancing of different effects, being all quantified on different scales. In this work, a methodology is proposed, which allows one to quantify different effects of the production, consumption and disposal of goods, and services on a single scale. The basis of the methodology is the second law of thermodynamics. All production, consumption and disposal processes affecting the ecosystem and the population, are quantified in terms of loss of exergy. The exergy content of a material is the maximum amount of energy which can be transformed into work at given environmental conditions. Next to the elaboration of the methodology, the new approach is illustrated by examples of the production of synthetic organic polymers, inorganic building insulation materials and different waste gas treatment options.The classification scheme for human health indicators in life-cycle assessment (LCA) and other toxicity scores is proposed based on identifiable target or.-an or system toxicity. This scheme represents a compromise between a subjective single overall score and highly detailed toxic mechanisms of action. A case study was used to evaluate the proposed classification scheme. The data on 117 high production volume organic chemicals were extracted from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) integrated risk information system (IRIS) database. Based on the critical effect listed in the database, almost all chemicals were easily and clearly classified into the proposed categories. However, there were significant variations in test species, protocol, duration, toxicological parameter measured, etc., among different toxicity studies. Importantly, the toxicological critical effects observed, even for the same target organ or system, differed from chemical to chemical and were not equivalent. Using hepatotoxicity as an example, critical effects included changes in organ weight, a variety of different histopathological changes, and changes in circulating hepatic enzyme levels. Therefore, no universal, common basis was identified for biological equivalency in order to compare or to aggregate chemicals into an overall toxicity score. A recent proposal to develop a characterization system based on disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) was also evaluated. No means were found to extrapolate animal critical effects data to predict any diminution in human lifetimes or the appearance and intensity of human disability. Still, LCA presents an ideal starting point for toxicological analysis by conducting a 
system-wide analysis that inventories and maps the sources of potentially important human pollutants. The LCA results could then facilitate initial toxicological and risk evaluations for those sources and chemicals and set the stage for a more detailed and informed analysis by professional toxicologists.Life Cycle assessment is becoming a successful methodology for improving products and processes design from the environmental viewpoint. However, important difficulties can be already found when applying the methodology in SMEs. In this paper, a software application for simplifying LCA in SMEs is proposed. The streamlining takes place in the assessment phase, where qualitative and quantitative inputs are introduced in a fuzzy inference system, for assessing the level of impacts provoked by evaluating a set of predefined fuzzy rules. These rules have been developed by a group of experts in Chemical Engineering.A multi-objective optimisation framework is used to identify trade-offs between various goals in flowsheet design/synthesis. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used to handle the environmental considerations. The methodology is demonstrated using a vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) plant with varying degrees of heat integration as a case study.An environmental life cycle assessment was performed to investigate the environmental consequences of the life cycle of Hushallsost, a semi-hard cheese. The assessment identified those activities that contribute most to the cheese's environmental impact throughout its life cycle from extraction of ingredients to waste management. Milk production at the farm was identified as having the greatest environmental impact, followed by cheesemaking at the dairy, retailing, and the production of plastic wrapping. The environmental impact could be reduced by minimising wastage of milk and cheese throughout the life cycle, without any effect on the quality of the product. Increasing the yield of cheese would also bring about substantial improvements as less milk would have to be produced on farms. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Although there are many kinds of computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) packages available on the market, there is no educational system developed for the fundamental estimations of machining process parameters, such as cutting time, material removal rate (MRR), feed rate, and spindle speed. Having such a system is important for a number of reasons: cost estimation, life cycle analysis, machine programming, tool and workpiece selection, production rate, and number of machining steps, etc. In this paper a knowledge-based system (KBS) developed for the Computer Numerical Control (CNC) processes and its implementation in a junior level CNC class are presented.The option of weighting impact categories according to ISO 14042 on Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) is particularly difficult for global organizations, as they have to consider a wide range of values. The motivation for employing weighting is usually based on the desire to simplify LCIA output, especially in circumstances where product system tradeoffs occur. Looking globally at regional variations in legislation, consumer values, monetary valuation, existing weighting sets and expert opinions, no globally agreed upon weighting set is likely to be derived. This is due to both the inherent subjectivity of weighting and l
ocal variations in environmental imperatives. Hence, the authors recommend that LCIA quantitative weighting, especially those provided in pre-packaged software instruments, should not be employed. Admittedly, to use a spectrum of LCIA results for internal design decisions, some kind of trade-off analysis has to be performed, especially if comparing competing design alternatives. However, this trade-off analysis should be done separately from the technical LCA study and should reflect values and visions of the global organization, as well as the circumstances of the targeted market, in a qualitative way. For any external communication, none of the quantitative weighting sets can be used.Establishing BAT (Best Available Techniques) for processes subject to IPPC is a new barrier and one that processes in the development stage need to be aware of. For multi-functional processes, the sectorial approach adopted under IPPC (Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control) increases the potential problems. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an established tool to assist establishing BAT but is difficult to apply in its full form at the Research and Development (R&D) stage. A review of LCA in the context of a case study, the Trefoil kiln process, concludes that it has the flexibility to cope with multi-functionality and that use of key environmental issues and key indicators could overcome the informational gaps. Environmental burdens can be presented appropriately provided the research identifies appropriate allocation methods. The use of LCA thinking provided useful insight on the content of the research programme.A screening methodology is presented that utilizes the linear structure within the deterministic life cycle inventory (LCI) model. The methodology ranks each input data element based upon the amount it contributes toward the final output. The identified data elements along with their position in the deterministic model are then sorted into descending order based upon their individual contributions. This enables practitioners and model users to identify those input data elements that contribute the most in the inventory stage. Percentages of the top ranked data elements are then selected, and their corresponding data quality index (DQI) value is upgraded in the stochastic LCI model. Monte Carlo computer simulations are obtained and used to compare the output variance of the original stochastic model with modified stochastic model. The methodology is applied to four real-world beverage delivery system LCA inventory models for verification. This research assists LCA practitioners by streamlining the conversion process when converting a deterministic LCI model to a stochastic model form. Model users and decision-makers can benefit from the reduction in output variance and the increase in ability to discriminate between product system alternatives.The environmental profile of laundry detergents at three time points (1988, 1992, and 1998) were compared on the basis of two distinct, complementary approaches: Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) and Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA). The results are presented in this paper and its accompanying paper in this issue (Part 1: Product Environmental Risk Assessment). Life-Cycle Inventory (LCI) data from The Netherlands and Sweden were used for this retrospective analysis. The chosen time period studied (1988 - 199
8) spans significant, multiple formulation and process change in laundry detergents, including the introduction of compact, then super-compact, granular detergents. Cradle-to-Gate LCAs based on 1 kg of finished product (from raw material supply to packaged finished product leaving the suppliers site) revealed no significant differences between the products themselves, as manufactured between 1988, 1992 and 1998. Cradle-to-Grave LCAs based on 1000 wash cycles (from raw material supply to disposal of used product) indicated that the consumption of raw materials and energy, as well as environmental emissions (air, water and solid waste), decreased after the introduction of compact detergents in 1988. The LCAs revealed that a number of category indicator values decreased (for acidification, aquatic toxicity greenhouse effects, eutrophication, toxicity, ozone depletion and smog). Furthermore, the results of the LCAs support the conclusion that the differences between The Netherlands and Sweden are due to (1) differences in electrical generation between the countries, (2) differences in energy consumption during consumer use, (3) differences in detergent dosage per wash and (4) differences in the wastewater treatment infrastructure.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been used to detect the environmental 'hot spots' in the chrome-tanned bovine leather industry. We have studied those stages in the life cycle of leather, which occur 'from cradle to gate'. The production chain studied starts with the agricultural products (fertiliser and pesticide production is also included) needed for cattle raising, it is followed by the slaughterhouse, and ends at the tanning industry gate. Main chemicals and waste flows in and out of this chain have also been included in the analysis. One of the main conclusions is that the tannery is an important stage in most of the impact categories, mainly due to the landfilling of the tannery wastes. Agriculture and - to a lesser extent - cattle raising also play a very important role in most of the impact categories; the former, due to the related energy consumption and use of fertilisers, and the latter due to the emissions associated with animal care. The Autonomous Government of Catalonia is using the results of this study to establish the environmental criteria that a leather product must fulfil in order to attain the Catalan eco-label.In recent years many workers have examined the implications of various sources of uncertainty for the reliability of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Indeed, the International Standardization Organization (ISO) has recognised the relevance of this work by including several cautionary statements in the ISO 14040 series of standards. However, in practice, there is a risk that the significance of these uncertainties for the results of an LCA could be overlooked as practitioners strive to complete studies on time and within budget. This paper presents the findings of a survey of LCA studies we made to determine the extent to which the problem of uncertainty had been dealt with in practice. This survey revealed that the significance of the limitations on the reliability of LCA results given in the standards has not been fully appreciated by practitioners. We conclude that the standards need to be revised to ensure that LCA studies include at least a qualitative discussion on all relevant aspects o
f uncertainty.Limitations of data quality and difficulties to assess uncertainty are long since acknowledged problems in LCA. During recent years a range of tools for improvement of reliability in LCA have been presented, but despite this there is still a lack of consensus about how these issues should be handled. To give basic understanding of data quality and uncertainty in LCA, key concepts of data quality and uncertainty in the context of LCA are explained. A comprehensive survey of methods and approaches for data quality management, sensitivity analysis, and uncertainty analysis published in the LCA literature is presented. It should serve as a guide to further reading for LCA practitioners interested in improving data quality management and uncertainty assessment in LCA projects. The suitability of different tools for addressing different types of uncertainty and future needs in this field is discussed.Life cycle assessment (LCA) will always involve some subjectivity and uncertainty. This reality is especially true when the analysis concerns new technologies. Dealing with uncertainty can generate richer information and minimize some of the result mismatches currently encountered in the literature. As a way of analyzing future fuel cell vehicles and their potential new fuels, the Fuel Upstream Energy and Emission Model (FUEEM) developed at the University of California - Davis, pioneered two different ways to incorporate uncertainty into the analysis. First, the model works with probabilistic curves as inputs and with Monte Carlo simulation techniques to propagate the uncertainties. Second, the project involved the interested parties in the entire process, not only in the critical review phase. The objective of this paper is to present, as a case study, the tools and the methodologies developed to acquire most of the knowledge held by interested parties and to deal with their eventually conflicted - interests. The analysis calculation methodology, the scenarios, and all assumed probabilistic curves were derived from a consensus of an international expert network discussion, using existing data in the literature along with new information collected from companies. The main part of the expert discussion process uses a variant of the Delphi technique, focusing on the group learning process through the information feedback feature. A qualitative analysis indicates that a higher level of credibility and a higher quality of information can be achieved through a more participatory process. The FUEEM method works well within technical information and also in establishing a reasonable set of simple scenarios. However, for a complex combination of scenarios, it will require some improvement. The time spent in the process was the major drawback of the method and some alternatives to share this time cost are suggested.The quantitative macroscopic model for the CO2 emission by Japanese passenger cars is proposed in which the CO2 emission in production, use and end of life stage is analyzed in a different manner from the internationally standardized LCA according to ISO 14040s. Passenger cars are classified into regular cars, compact cars and mini cars based on their air volume displacement. These cars are scrapped from society according to their scrapping rate distribution. The effect of the change in the usage pattern of passenger cars on the amo
unt of CO2 emission is examined and it turns out that it is not effective enough. Moreover, how much improvement of fuel economy is necessary in order to achieve the goal of the CO2 emission reduction by COP3 is also estimated. Consequently, it turns out that it must be improved by 2.42 times of the fuel economy in 1995 by the year 2010.This article aims at estimating life cycle CO2 emissions from electric vehicles (EV) and gasoline vehicles (GV), although the estimation in this study is not an LCA according to ISO14040s. For this purpose, a mathematical tool called the Process-relational model was developed. The Process-relational model is used for establishing lifecycle inventories. The model has a structure which improved the principle of input-output analysis in econometrics that only one product is generated by one process. This model enabled us to overcome difficulties of LCA in retracing complicated repercussions among production systems. Then, life cycle CO2 emissions from electric vehicles (EV) and gasoline vehicles (GV) were estimated with this model. Estimated results indicated that the manufacture and driving of EV resulted in less CO2 emissions than those of GV. However, the difference between EV and GV dramatically changed depending on traffic situations. Namely, the difference became larger as the average velocity of the vehicles became lower. We also compared CO2 emission from manufacturing EV with that from driving EV. The share of manufacture was shown to increase in total CO2 emissions as the average velocity of the EV became higher. In conclusion, we clarified the direction of research and development of EV and GV for reducing the life cycle CO2.Unstable market systems and consumer preferences for Virgin oil have inhibited the development of waste oil re-refining in Japan. In this paper, comparative life cycle inventories were developed for re-refining waste oil and for the no-refining case in which the waste oil is incinerated and needs are supplied with virgin oil. Total energy, CO2, NOx, and SO2 emissions were included during the re-refining and consumption (incineration) stages; all are lower in the case of re-refined fuel use. In addition, by using a streamlined LCA matrix, we demonstrate that re-refining waste oil can reduce environmental impacts compared with the case in which virgin oil is chosen.A Life-Cycle Inventory (LCI) and Assessment (LCA) database for laundry detergents of the Procter & Gamble Company (P&G) was constructed using SimaPro software. The input data needed to conduct a product LCT came from several different, supporting databases to cover supplier (extraction and manufacturing of raw materials), manufacturing of the detergent product, transportation, packaging, use and disposal stages. Manufacturing, packaging and transportation stages are usually representative of European conditions while the use and disposal stages are country specific and represent how consumers are using a specific product and how wastes are disposed of. The database has been constructed to allow Procter & Gamble managers to analyse detergent products from a system-wide, functional unit point of view in a consistent, transparent and reproducible manner. For demonstrative purpose, a life cycle inventory and a life cycle impact assessment of a P&G laundry detergent used in Belgium is presented. The analysis showed that mor
e than 80% of the energy consumption occurs during the consumer use stage (mainly for heating of the water). Air and solid waste follow the same pattern, most of these being associated with the energy generation for the use stage. More than 98% of the biological oxygen demand, however, is associated with the disposal stage even after accounting for removal during treatment. Future challenges are the completion and/or updating of all detergent ingredient inventories.A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was carried out for milk production extending from the origin of the inputs to the agricultural step to the consumer phase and the waste management of the packaging. Three Norwegian dairies of different sizes and degree of automation were studied. The main objectives were to find any hot spots in the life cycle of milk, to determine the significance of the dairy size and degree of automation, and to study the influence of transport. The agriculture was found to be the main hot spot for almost all the environmental themes studied, although the dairy processing, packaging, consumer phase and waste management were also of importance. The consumer phase was the main contributor to photo-oxidant formation and important regarding eutrophication. The small dairy was found to have a greater environmental impact than the middle-sized and the largest dairies. The transport did not have any major influence.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background: Input-Output Analysis (IOA) has recently been introduced to Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). In applying IOA to LCA studies, however, it is important to note that there are both advantages and disadvantages. Objectives: This paper aims to provide a better understanding of the advantages and disadvantages of adopting IOA in LCA, and introduces the methodology and principles of the Missing Inventory Estimation Tool (MIET) as one of the approaches to combine the strengths of process-specific LCA and IOA. Additionally, we try to identify a number of possible errors in the use of IOA for LCA purposes, due to confusion between industry output and commodity, consumer's price and producer's price. Method: MIET utilises the 1996 US input-output table and various environmental statistics. It is based on an explicit distinction between commodity and industry output. Results and Discussion: MIET is a self-contained, publicly available database which can be applied directly in LCA studies to estimate missing processes. Conclusion: By adopting MIET results in existing, process-based, life-cycle inventory (LCI), LCA practitioners can fully utilise the process-specific information while expanding the system boundary. Recommendations and Outlook: MIET will be continuously updated to reflect both methodological developments and newly available data sources. For supporting information see http://www.leidenuniv.nl/cml/ssp/software/miet.The exclusion of site-specific data from the inventory phase of an LCA continues to be a point of controversy. Though the current simplified data collection strategy is widely supported by the LCA community, there are still many who are concerned about the implications this limitation has for the utility and reliability of LCA results. This is particularly relevant to practitioners who are attempting to draw conclusions about the environmental performance of different systems for the development of environmental p
olicy. The current site-generic methodology introduces uncertainties into LCA results that have the potential to misdirect decisions on improvement measures. Therefore, in this paper we assess the practicality of collecting site-specific data and examine its value for study interpretation and decision-making. In our case study, we compare the contribution of a number of plastics-based packaging systems to photochemical oxidant formation. Our results demonstrate that the aggregation of photochemical oxidant precursor emissions into a single global parameter is an unreliable indicator of environmental burden and that the real significance of each packaging's contribution to the formation of photochemical smog in the atmosphere can only be understood after the addition of spatial and temporal information. We conclude that for non-global cumulative impact categories, additional spatial and temporal data should be collected, and that the benefits to decision makers far outweigh the additional effort needed to acquire this data for the LCA inventory.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background. To discuss the process of stakeholder involvement as undertaken in a post-consumer paper and packaging waste management LCA study conducted during 1997-2001 for the Melbourne Metropolitan Area Victoria, Australia. Secondly, to present the findings from a survey conducted with the stakeholder groups regarding their perception of involvement in the project. Objectives. To investigate the stakeholder's perception and value of being involved in the LCA study intended to generate quantitative environmental information to support debate, development and implementation of waste management practices. Methods. Stakeholders that were involved in the study, both actively and passively, were surveyed by questionnaire. Survey findings were analysed in conjunction with stakeholder interaction experiences obtained in the course of the study. Results and Discussion. Respondents to the survey believed there was a sufficient level of interaction between stakeholders and researchers during the course of the project. The advisory committee approach helped to timely recognize issues and deal with them appropriately. It further assisted in the collection of life cycle inventory data and in obtaining ownership of outcomes by the research team appropriately responding to the needs and issues raised by stakeholders. Recommendations and Outlook. General recommendations for the inclusion of stakeholders in future studies are to use stakeholder interactions, wherever it is possible and practical, which in turn play an educational role, engage stakeholders from the start of the process and allow additional time in the project plan for review stages, as well as ensuring that all relevant groups are represented - industry, industry associations, government and non-governmental organizations, and also provide sufficient material and progress for discussion at meetings.Linoleum is a floor covering consisting mainly of linseed oil, other vegetable oils, wood flour and limestone on a carrier of jute. Forbo-Krommenie B.V. commissioned the Centre of Environmental Science (CML) to carry out an Environmental Life Cycle Assessment for linoleum floors. The goal of this study was to assess the environmental performance of linoleum floors, indicating possible options for improvement, and assessing the sens
itivity of the results to methodological choices. The functional unit was defined as: 2000 m(2) linoleum produced in 1998, used in an office or public building over a period of 20 years. The method followed in this study is based on a nearly final draft version of the LCA guide published by CML in corporation with many others, which is an update of the guide on LCA of 1992. From the contribution analysis, the main contributing processes became clear. In addition, the sensitivity analysis by scenarios showed that the type of maintenance during use and the pigments used can have a large influence on the results. Major data gaps of the study were capital goods and unknown chemicals. Sensitivity analysis also showed that these gaps can lead to an underestimation. Based on this study, some options to improve the environmental performance of linoleum were formulated and advice for further LCA studies on linoleum was given.In view of the upcoming 2002 World Summit in Johannesburg, sustainable development is a topic of high priority in South Africa. Although the South African competency in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Life Cycle Engineering (LCE) has grown to some extent over the last ten years, South African industry and government have been slow to realise the benefit of LCAs and LCE as tools to support cleaner production and sustainable development. However, the local application of these tools, as well as considerations during their use, differs from practices in developed countries. The applications of LCAs and LCE, the type of organisations involved and the limitations and common problems associated with these tools in South Africa are discussed.This paper presents a summary of the presentation given in a plenary session entitled 'Promoting a life-cycle approach' as part of the UNEP's 7th International High-Level Seminar on Cleaner Production (CP7) in Prague, Czech Republic on April 28-30, 2002.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background. BASF has developed the tool of eco-efficiency analysis to address not only strategic issues, but also issues posed by the marketplace, politics and research. It was a goal to develop a tool for decision-making processes which is useful for a lot of applications in chemistry and other industries. Objectives. The objectives were the development of a common tool, which is usable in a simple way by LCA-experts and understandable by a lot of people without any experience in this field. The results should be shown in such a way that complex studies are understandable in one view. Methods. The method belongs to the rules of ISO 14040 ff. Beyond these life cycle aspect costs, calculations are added and summarized together with the ecological results to establish an eco-efficiency portfolio. Results and Discussion. The results of the studies are shown in a simple way, the eco-efficiency portfolio. Therefore, ecological data are summarized in a special way as described in this paper. It could be shown that the weighting factors, which are used in our method, have a negligible impact on the results. In most cases, the input data have an important impact on the results of the study. Conclusions. It could be shown that the newly developed eco-efficiency analysis is a new tool, which is usable for a lot of problems in decision-making processes. It is a tool which compares different alternatives of a defined customer benefit o
ver the whole life cycle. Recommendations and Outlook. This new method can be a helpful tool in different fields of the evaluation of product or process alternatives. It can be used in research and development as well as in the optimization of customer processes and products. It is an analytical tool for getting more sustainable processes and products in the future.Superior environmental performance has not traditionally been a goal of managers of telecommunications facilities, but there is now considerable pressure to go 'beyond compliance,' even for facilities that have been in existence for many years. In this regard, significant environmental improvement can be achieved by taking a life-cycle perspective. We have conducted a streamlined life-cycle assessment on two existing telecommunications facilities, one providing installation and maintenance services and the other network management services. With the results of this assessment as a basis, we propose a number of generic steps that can be taken to improve the environmental performance of most existing telecommunications facilities.Life cycle assessment is a powerful tool in the evaluation of the environmental performance. However, there is no generally accepted methodology. To develop a practical method, an accumulative model for the comparative life cycle assessment is established and applied in the two typical iron and steel processes, the DRI/EF process and the BF/BOF process. The results indicate that the method could quantitatively compare the alternatives. When the DRI/EF process is compared with the BF/BOF process, it is shown that the IREI (integrated relative environmental index) is 60.22% for the production of iron and 52.4% for the production of steel, respectively. The environmental performance of the DRI/EF process is superior to that of the BF/BOF process.1 Background. The U.S. Government has encouraged shifting from internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs) to alternatively fueled vehicles such as electric vehicles (EVs) for three primary reasons: reducing oil dependence, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and reducing Clean Air Act criteria pollutant emissions. In comparing these vehicles, there is uncertainty and variability in emission factors and performance variables, which cause wide variation in reported outputs. 2 Objectives. A model was developed to demonstrate the use of Monte Carlo simulation to predict life cycle emissions and energy consumption differences between the ICEV versus the EV on a per kilometer (km) traveled basis. Three EV technologies are considered: lead-acid, nickel-cadmium, and nickel metal hydride batteries. 3 Methods. Variables were identified to build life cycle inventories between the EVs and ICEV. Distributions were selected for each of the variables and input to Monte Carlo Simulation software called Crystal Ball 2000(R). 4 Results and Discussion. All three EV options reduce U,S. oil dependence by shifting to domestic coal. The life cycle energy consumption per kilometer (km) driven for the EVs is comparable to the ICEV; however, there is wide variation in predicted energy values. The model predicts that all three EV technologies will likely increase oxides of sulfur and nitrogen as well as particulate matter emissions on a per km driven basis, The model shows a high probability that volatile organic compounds and carbon monoxide
 emissions are reduced with the use of EVs. Lead emissions are also predicted to increase for lead-acid battery EVs. The EV will not reduce greenhouse gas emissions substantially and may even increase them based on the current U.S. reliance on coal for electricity generation. The EV may benefit public health by relocating air pollutants from urban centers, where traffic is concentrated, to rural areas where electricity generation and mining generally occur. The use of Monte Carlo simulation in life cycle analysis is demonstrated to be an effective tool to provide further insight on the likelihood of emission outputs and energy consumption.We investigated the system expansion approach to net energy analysis for ethanol production from domestic corn grain. Production systems included in this study are ethanol production from corn dry milling and corn wet milling, corn grain production (the agricultural system), soybean products from soybean milling (i.e. soybean oil and soybean meal) and urea production to determine the net energy associated with ethanol derived from corn grain. These five product systems are mutually interdependent. That is, all these systems generate products which compete with or displace all other comparable products in the market place. The displacement ratios between products compare the equivalence of their marketplace functions. The net energy, including transportation to consumers, is 0.56 MJ(net)/MJ of ethanol from corn grain regardless of the ethanol production technology employed. Using ethanol as a liquid transportation fuel could reduce domestic use of fossil fuels, particularly petroleum. Sensitivity analyses show that the choice of allocation procedures has the greatest impact on fuel ethanol net energy. Process energy associated with wet milling, dry milling an the corn agricultural process also significantly influences the net energy due to the wide ranges of available process energy values. The system expansion approach can completely eliminate allocation procedures in the foreground system of ethanol production from corn grain.Salinity is an increasing environmental problem in agricultural ecosystems and is not adequately represented in conventional life cycle assessment (LCA) impact categories. It is often not the total quantity of salts emitted or the proportion of salt accumulated in the soil profile that is the primary mechanism for deteriorating soil conditions for irrigated salinity, rather the ratio of major cations in the soil matrix and the potential for colloid, dispersion and reduced permeability. A soil salinisation potential (SP) is proposed as an indicator for irrigated salinity and potential soil degradation from poor irrigation practices. The indicator uses the threshold electrolyte concentration concept that predicts the adjusted sodium adsorption ratio (SAR)/ Electrical conductivity (EC) ratio that soil will no longer flocculate, but potentially disperse. The SAR is converted to a threshold EC and compared to the measured EC in order to develop a site-specific irrigation equivalence factor (EF). This site/region/process specific EF is then used to weight the sodium load to soil and repeated for each stage throughout the entire life cycle to determine the overall Salinisation Potential (SP). The data required for calculating the SP is generally readily available either on site or from th
e water chemistry of the local watercourses. Preliminary calculations simply require the volume, pH, electrical conductivity (EC), alkalinity and the concentrations of Na, Ca, and Mg of the irrigation water. The site/process/region specific nature of the indicator ensures a quantitative measure to enable comparisons between different systems and is useful for identifying stages in the life cycle of a product (particularly food products), where the potential for soil salinisation and soil degradation is most severe.Reply to Patrick Hcfstefter 'The Value Debate: Ecodesign in a Global Context: Are there differences in global values and do they matter?' Int J LCA 7 (2) 62-63 (2002).UN Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED): Earth Summit, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 3-14 June 1992. A major achievement of UNCED was Agenda 21, a thorough and broad-ranging programme of actions demanding new ways of investing in our future to reach global sustainable development in the 21st century. Its recommendations ranged from new ways to educate, to new ways to care for natural resources, and new ways to participate in designing a sustainable economy. The overall ambition of Agenda 21 was breathtaking - its goal was nothing less than to make a safe and just world in which all life has dignity and is celebrated. Ten years later, the UN Summit for Sustainable Development (WSSD): Rio+10, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August - 4 September 2002 adjoins. This event will review the progress made in achieving a more sustainable development and will promote further steps in the implementation of Agenda 21. Chapter 30 of Agenda 21 'Strengthening the Role of Business and Industry' explicitly recognizes the important role of business in putting the objectives of sustainable development into practice. A vital community of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) is crucial for achieving economic progress, human development, and effective environmental protection, thus sustainable in both developing and industrialized countries. In line with past International Business Forums, the CIDG's 7th International Business Forum addresses a set of issues of particular relevance to SMEs in sustainable development. Attention is given to the role business-to-business cooperation can play to build and strengthen capacity for sustainable development as well as to emerging principles and best practices guiding sustainability-oriented partnerships between business and government agencies or business, government agencies and civil society groups. In addition to these topics, the conference addresses a number of more specific issues. This includes environmental management systems, the emerging role of information technology, and the internet in helping SMEs in developing countries to implement effective environmental management systems and to achieve technological leap-frogging, as well as changes in the agricultural and tourism sectors, which both are vital to local economic development and effective environmental protection. The following sections of the background paper detail these topics, their relevance to achieving a more sustainable development, and the specific challenges involved for SMEs.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background. BASF has developed the tool of eco-efficiency analysis [1] to address not only environmental issues, but also issues posed by the marketplace, politic
s, product strategy and research. It is based on assessing environmental behaviour, environmental impact, possible effects on human health and ecosystems, and the costs of products and processes from the cradle to the grave. The goal of eco-efficiency analysis is to quantify the sustainability of products and processes. Objectives. Many LCAs do not conduct an assessment of the toxicity potential. But, to arrive at a comprehensive assessment of products and processes, it is specifically this criterion which constitutes an important factor with regard to the evaluation of sustainability. Methods. A comprehensive and easy-to-use model was developed to assess toxicity for eco-efficiency analysis. Our model uses the classifications for hazardous materials under EU law (31 R-phrases to describe different health effects). Moreover, eco-efficiency analysis requires an actual score of toxicity. This means that the following question has to be answered for every toxic effect, "How severe is a certain adverse effect compared to others? " This is a very personal judgement. We performed a survey with 40 toxicologists (industry and academia) and asked for a ranking and scoring of the toxic effects of 26 substances according to the personal opinion on how severe the toxic effects actually are considered to be. Based on the results, we developed a scoring system. Results and Discussion. The system summarises different health effects in six groups, each with a score between 0 and 1000; combinations of various effects and different exposure routes are also taken into account. A substance is attributed to a group by its R-phrases. The new toxicity assessment model has been used in eco-efficiency analysis and has stood the test for one year. However, the hazard has to be combined with exposure to describe the actual risk. A second model was developed to describe the exposure-using general use-categories and physico-chemical properties of the individual substances. The assessment of toxic effects has been a neglected in many LCAs. Conclusions. The new models allow the assessment of toxic effects in an appropriate and easy way. The significant impact of thorough toxicity assessments on the outcome of eco-efficiency analysis is demonstrated by a comparison of different assessment models. Recommendations and Outlook. LCA in combination with the evaluation of toxicity and risk-potentials will become more and more important in the future. This new methodology allows the calculation of toxicity potentials in a short time with a short set of input information. Those data as a part of the eco-efficiency analysis of BASF are useful to show the most important impacts over the whole life cycle. Decision-making processes with the eco-efficiency analysis will become much more useful by using this new assessment of toxicity factors.Thorough environmental observation and a series of life cycle consideration have been performed to underpin the development of the environmental criteria of a new EU Eco-label product group following the voluntary and selective European Environmental Award Scheme based on Regulation EC 1980/ 2000. Since April 2002, the European Eco-label is available for the Hard Floor Coverings product group, subsequently also called 'HFC'. The Eco-label translates environmental awareness on products for indoor and outdoor covering materials such as ceramic and
 clay tiles, concrete paving units, terrazzo, agglomerated and natural stones into a new market-based environmental policy tool. As a matter of fact, the HFC ecological criteria development has been positively concluded based on a the study of the Italian National Environment Protection Agency (ANPA, Agenzia Nazionale per la Protezione dell'Ambiente) with the technical support of Life Cycle Engineering (Turin, Italy), that had been entrusted with this task by the European Commission, DG Environment. The stakeholders involved in the 'Ad Hoc Working Group' activities included European Eco-label Competent Bodies, some of the most important manufacturers, consumers and environmental associations at a European level. In December 2001, after eighteen months of concerted work with all the interested parties in the European Union Eco-label Board (EUEB), the final vote of criteria by Member States enabled the publication of the EU-wide valid criteria and the elaboration of an application pack (user manual) in late March 2002.An LCA case study was conducted for the production of lead and zinc by an Imperial Smelting Process (abbreviated hereafter as ISP) in Shaoguan Smelter, China. The detailed inventory analysis was performed by allocating the Input/Output among the main products. The environmental impacts were assessed by using the following five Eco-indicators: Gross Energy Requirement (GER), Global Warming Potential (GWP), Acidification Potential (AP), Heavy Metal Toxicity (HMT) and Solid Waste Burden (SWB). This study is useful to address the environmental situation of the ISP practiced in this smelter, and provides a scientific basis for further improvement.The goal of this study was to calculate the average CO2 emissions for manufacturing three commodity plastics, polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in Japan. The CO2 emissions were calculated from cradle to gate, excluding the calcination processes after use. As the results, the followings were observed: 1) The gross CO2 emissions for the manufacture of plastics in Japan were 1.3, 1.4, and 1.7 kg-CO2/kg-PE, PP, and PVC, respectively. These mainly reflected the difference of CO2 emissions for the in-house electricity generation. 2) The CO2 emissions for the electricity used for manufacturing PVC were higher than that used for PE and PP, because additional electricity was required for the electrolysis to produce chlorine. The gross electricity consumption for manufacturing PVC was 1.3 kWh/kg-PVC, and the other plastics consumed 0.5 kWh/kg-Products. In addition, the effects of energy saving were studied using a projected gas-diffusion electrode for the electrolysis of salt on the reduction of CO2 emissions. It was estimated that the reduction in CO2 emissions was 7% compared with the present PVC manufacturing processes.The objective of this study is to estimate the specific CO2 emissions related to the electricity consumption in the European primary aluminium production and to compare different choices of system boundaries of its electricity supply. The study covers all European aluminium smelters, except Russia and the Ukraine. The concepts of single power plant supply, contract mix, national mix and European grid mix are compared as alternative choices of system boundaries of the electricity supply. The calculations of the electricity consumption in the electro
lysis are based on plant-specific information on technology, production and electricity supply. Detailed fuel and country-specific data on CO2 emissions of the relevant types of electricity generation are used with a 'from cradle to grave' perspective. The specific emissions calculated for Europe fall into the range of 6-7 kg CO2/kg Al depending on the choice of system boundaries.Goal and Background. The treatment of allocation in the descriptive LCA of wood-based products has been discussed for a long time and different solutions have been presented. In general, it is accepted that the influence of different allocation procedures on the results of LCA of wood-based products can be very significant. This paper is a result of the Cost Action E9 'Life cycle assessment of forestry and forest products' and represents the experience of involved Cost E9 delegates. Objective. Wood is a renewable material that can be used for wood products and energy production. Consistent methodological procedures are needed in order to correctly address the twofold nature of wood as a material and fuel, the multi-functional wood processing generating large quantities of co-products, and reuse or recycling of paper and wood. Ten different processes in LCAs of wood-based products are identified, where allocation questions can occur: forestry, sawmill, wood industry, pulp and paper industry, particle board industry, recycling of paper, recycling of wood-based boards, recycling of waste wood, combined heat and power production, landfill. Methodology. Following ISO 14 041 a step-wise procedure for system boundary setting and allocation are outlined. As a first priority allocation should be avoided by system expansion, thus adding additional functions to the functional unit. Alternatively, the avoided-burden approach can be followed by subtracting substituted functions of wood that are additionally provided. If allocation cannot be avoided, some allocations methods from case studies are described. Conclusions. The following conclusions for allocation in LCA of wood-based products are given. 1) Avoid allocation by expansion of system boundaries by combining material and energy aspects of wood, meaning a combination of LCA of wood products and of energy from wood with a functional unit for products and energy. 2) Substitute energy from wood with conventional energy in the LCA of wood products to get the functional unit of the wood product only, but identify the criteria for the substituted energy. 3) Substitution of wooden products with non-wooden products in LCA of bioenergy is not advisable, because the substitution criteria can be too complex. 4) If avoiding allocation is not possible, the reasons should be documented. 5) Different allocation procedures must be analysed and documented. In many cases, it seems necessary to make a sensitivity analysis of different allocation options for different environmental effects. It can also be useful to get the acceptance of the chosen allocation procedure by external experts. 6) Different allocation factors, e.g. mass or economic value, are allowed within the same LCA. 7) For allocation of forestry processes it is necessary to describe the main function of the forest where the raw material is taken out. In some cases different types or functions of forests must be considered and described. 8) Regarding the experiences from the
 examples, the following most practical allocation for some specific processes are identified: forestry: mass or volume; sawmill: mass or volume and proceeds; wood industry: mass and proceeds.Goal and Background. Geographical and technological differences in Life Cycle Inventory data are an important source for uncertainty in the result of Life Cycle Assessments. Knowledge on their impact on the result of an LCA is scarce, and also knowledge on how to manage them in an LCA case study. Objective. Goal of this paper is to explore these differences for municipal solid waste incinerator plants, and to develop recommendations for managing technological and geographical differences. Methodology. The paper provides a definition of technological and geographical differences, and analyses their possible impacts. In a case study, the differences are caused intentionally in 'games', by virtually transplanting incineration plants to a different location and by changing parameters such as the composition of the waste input incinerated. The games are performed by using a modular model for municipal solid waste incinerator plants. In each case, an LCA including an Impact Assessment is calculated to trace the impact of these changes, and the results are compared. Conclusions. The conclusions of the paper are two-fold: (1) reduce the differences in inventory data where their impact on the result is high; where it is possible reducing them to a great extent, and the effort for performing the change acceptable; in the case of incineration plants: Adapt the flue gas treatment, especially a possible DeNOx step, to the real conditions; (2) make use of modular process models that allow adapting plant parameters to better meet real conditions, but be aware of possible modelling errors. The paper invites the scientific community to validate the model used for a waste incinerator plant, and suggest putting up similar models for other processes, preferably those of similar relevance for Life Cycle Inventories.The impact assessment of the consumption of abiotic resources, such as fossil fuels or minerals, is usually part of the Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) in LCA studies. The problem with the consumption of such resources is their decreasing availability for future generations. In currently available LCA methods (e.g. Eco-indicator' 99/Goedkoop and Spriensma 1999, CML/Guinee 2001), the consumption of various abiotic resources is aggregated into one summarizing indicator within the characterization phase of the LCIA. This neglects that many resources are used for different purposes and are not equivalent to each other. Therefore, the depletion of reserves of functionally non-equivalent resources should be treated as separate environmental problems, i.e. as separate impact sub-categories. Consequently, this study proposes assigning the consumption of abiotic resources to separate impact sub-categories and, if possible, integrating them into indicators only according to their primary function (e.g. coal, natural gas, oil --> consumption of fossil fuels; phosphate rock --> consumption of phosphate). Since this approach has been developed in the context of LCA studies on agricultural production systems, the impact assessment of the consumption of fossil fuels, phosphate rock, potash salt and lime is of particular interest and serves as an example. Following the ge
neral LCA framework (Consoli et al. 1993, ISO 1998), a normalization step is proposed separately for each of the sub-categories. Finally, specific weighting factors have been calculated for the sub-categories based on the 'distance-to-target' principle. The weighting step allows for further interpretation and enables the aggregation of the consumption of different abiotic resources to one summarizing indicator, called the Resource Depletion Index (RDI). The proposed method has been applied to a wheat production system in order to illustrate the conceptual considerations and to compare the approach to an established impact assessment method for abiotic resources (CML method, Guinee 2001).We would like to report on an innovation to be incorporated in Int J LCA beginning with the January edition in 2003; it concerns the expansion of the journal by a section on LCM (Life Cycle Management). This new section will clearly be separated from the LCA 'nucleus', has an Editorial Board of its own and is peer-reviewed as well. This activity takes the latest developments into account that strive to find an overall concept in order to implement the ideas of 'Sustainability' and 'LC Thinking' in practice.It is common to have numerous alternatives and conditions that remain uncertain, but these need to be assessed in decision-making processes. Investigators introduce decision-makers' anticipations and assumptions into analysis when building strategies as a form of scenario. In such a way, scenario analysis is often used as a powerful vehicle for decision making. While a number of LCA case studies dealing with scenarios have been performed, structured frameworks integrating LCA with scenario analysis methodologies have not yet been established. in this paper, we first propose a general framework for scenario-based LCA. The framework provides retrospective and prospective studies with a clear structure. The most important characteristic of the structure is the recognition and separation of three modeling processes, lifecycle modeling, scenario modeling, and valuation modeling, to aim at an increase in reviewability of the entire study and reusability of the constructed models. Next, we introduce a tool, termed lifecycle modeling language (LCML), developed for modeling lifecycle systems and valuation procedures with its relevant scenarios within the proposed framework. LCML facilitates accumulating knowledge obtained from scenario-based LCA studies, by reusing the constructed models, or by applying the same patterns identified from the LCML description, and contributes to reducing the time and efforts needed for an investigation. An illustrative example is presented to show the functionality of LCML.If the complexity of real, socio-economic systems is acknowledged, life cycle inventory analysis (LCI) in life cycle assessment (LCA) cannot be considered as unambiguous, objective, and as an exclusively data and science based attribution of material and energy flows to a product. The paper thus suggests a set of criteria for LCI derived from different scientific disciplines, practice of product design and modelling characteristics of LCI and LCA. A product system with its respective LCI supporting the process of effective and efficient decision-making should ideally be: a) complete, operational, decomposable, non-redundant, minimal, and comparable; b) efficient,
 i.e., as simple, manageable, transparent, cheap, quick, but still as 'adequate' as possible under a functionalistic perspective which takes given economic constraints, material and market characteristics, and the goal and scope of the study into account; c) actor-based when reflecting the decision-makers' action space, risk-level, values, and knowledge (i.e. mental model) in view of the management rules of sustainable development; d) as site- and case-specific as possible, i.e. uses as much site-specific information as possible. This rationale stresses the significance of considering both (i) material and energy flows within the technosphere with regard to the sustainable management rules; (ii) environmental consequences of the environmental interventions on ecosphere. Further, the marginal cost of collecting and computing more and better information about environmental impacts must not exceed the marginal benefits of information for the natural environment. The ratio of environmental benefits to the economic cost of the tool must be efficient compared to other investment options. As a conclusion, in comparative LCAs, the application of equal allocation procedures does not lead to LCA-results on which products made from different materials can be compared in an adequate way. Each product and material must be modelled according to its specific material and market characteristics as well as to its particular management rules for their sustainable use. A generic LCA-methodology including preferences on methodological options is not definable.The impact category 'land use' describes in the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology the environmental impacts of occupying, reshaping and managing land for human purposes. Land use can either be the long-term use of land (e.g. for arable farming) or changing the type of land use (e.g. from natural to urban area). The impact category 'land use' comprises those environmental consequences, which impact the environment due to the land use itself, for instance through the reduction of landscape elements, the planting of monocultures or artificial vegetation, or the sealing of surfaces. Important environmental consequences of land use are the decreasing availability of habitats and the decreasing diversity of wildlife species. The assessment of the environmental impacts of land use within LCA studies is the objective of this paper. Land use leads to a degradation of the naturalness of the area utilised. In this respect the naturalness of any area can be defined as the sum of land actually not influenced by humans and the remaining naturalness of land under use. To determine the remaining naturalness of land under use, this study suggests applying the Hemeroby concept. "Hemeroby is a measure for the human influence on ecosystems" (Kowarik 1999). The Hemeroby level of an area describes the intensity of land use and can therefore be used to characterise different types of land use. Characterization factors are proposed, which allow calculating the degradation of the naturalness of an area due to a specific type of land use. Since the resource 'nature/naturalness' is on a larger geographical scale by far not homogeneous, the assessment of land use needs to be regionalised. Therefore, the impact category 'land use has been subdivided into the impact sub-categoties 'land use in European biogeographic regions'. 
Following the general LCA framework, normalization values for the impact sub-categories are calculated in order to facilitate the evaluation of the characterization results with regard to their share in a reference value. Weighting factors, which enable an aggregation of the results of the different land use sub-categories and make them comparable to other impact categories (e.g. climate change or acidification) are suggested based on the assumption that the current land use pattern in the European biogeographic regions is acceptable.The environmental impact assessment existing in the Russian Federation at the present moment cannot provide potential scenarios of consequences for the environment from examined processes, since its goal is to calculate the money equivalent of emissions to the environment. Also, it cannot help the environmental specialist to choose the most environmentally sustainable scenario or process, proceeding from the whole life cycle of the object, because it is usually performed only for the use phase of an object. This study also aims to show possibilities for applying LCA methodology, as accepted in the ISO standards series 14040, and as applied to Russian conditions. The main purpose was to investigate a possibility of using the existing environmental impact assessment as the inventory stage in the LCA. As the minor goal, normalisation and weighting factor data for the Russian Federation were calculated on the basis of energy consumption extrapolation. In this paper, the environmental impacts are associated with a sewage wastewater facility. The inventory analysis is performed with data obtained from the MosvodokanalNIIproject (Moscow Research Institute for sewage wastewater treatment facilities) and supplemented with the SimaPro 5.0 database (the Netherlands). The environmental impact categories included and discussed in this study are eutrophication, global warming, landfill, acidification, ozone layer depletion and photochemical ozone creation. This study was performed for several design alternatives or scenarios of the wastewater facility. According to the LCA performed in this study, the most environmentally sustainable scenario is that which has the most effective and complicated treatment of sewage water and sludge.Background, Intention, Goal and Scope. The analytical laboratory is traditionally considered to be a service provider. This has resulted in laboratory environmental management being considered mostly from a pollution prevention and waste minimization perspective. There is a recognized need to view environmental performance of a laboratory service provider from a broader perspective. This broader perspective is inclusive of sampling, analysis and the potential for impacts to arise from the use of output information products. A generic methodology for the measurement and benchmarking of the overall environmental performance of an analytical laboratory and its outputs using the Laboratory Product Model (LPM) is described. Environmental performance indicators, relating to inputs and processing are proposed. Objectives. The project seeks to broaden the focus of environmental performance away from the individual analytical unit processes to a more encompassing 'cradle-to-grave' approach incorporating sample collection and results reporting and use. To support this approach, a functional unit of output 
for a laboratory has to be defined. Methods. A life cycle assessment approach, incorporating life cycle inventory considerations, is applied within the LPM conceptual framework. Results and Discussion. This approach facilitates a shift in thinking from laboratory service to the life cycle of laboratory product inputs and outputs. It enables LCA methodologies to be applied to environmental performance through the application of the LPM. The definition of a laboratory product output facilitates benchmarking and comparison of laboratories. Conclusions. The LPM approach assigns a critical role to the laboraiory for the sustainability of the laboratory operations from sample collection, through analysis to the use of its product outputs. Recommendations and Outlook. The application of the LPM offers a top down approach for the evaluation of the environmental performance of an analytical laboratory. It is expected to provide a useful tool for assessing and benchmarking the environmental performance of analytical laboratories.Preamble. This paper outlines in two parts to be published in the September and November edition of Int J LCA 2002. Part I [Int J LCA 7 (5) 295-300 (2002)] prepares the field by defining technological and geographical differences, and by exploring the differences for a case study of four municipal solid waste incinerators. Part II [Int J LCA 7 (6) 363-368 (2002)] will show the impacts of technological and geographical differences which are intentionally caused for the incinerator plants. The results allow clear recommendations on how to handle technological and geographical differences in future case studies.Preamble. The treatment of allocation is a crucial matter in the LCA of wood-based products, because the allocation method might influence the results significantly. This paper outlines in two parts. Methodology (Part 1) and Examples (Part 11) - practical experiences for the treatment Of allocations for LCAs of wood-based products that are the result of the Cost Action E9 'Life cycle assessment of forestry and forest products' and reflect the experience of Cost E9 delegates. Part I has been published in the September issue [Int J LCA 7 (5) 290-294 (2002)] [8a].The number of tools and approaches to develop sustainability is growing rapidly. Sometimes they are presented as if they are contradictory or in competition. However, a systems approach consistent with basic principles and the requirements of sustainability shows that these tools are complementary and can be used in parallel for strategic sustainable development. In fact. it is only when using these approaches outside of the systemic context of sustainability that they become contradictory. This paper is a collective effort of scientists who have pioneered some of these tools and approaches. The paper maps essential elements for developing sustainability and documents how these elements relate to the application of the respective tools. The objective is to show how these tools and approaches relate to each other and build on each other when used for planning for sustainability. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology (IE) has been characterized by a fragmented approach encompassing a number of different perspectives and analytical techniques. A uniform framework has yet to be established or proposed. This paper partially addresses thi
s shortcoming by tracing some of the historical and intellectual antecedents of the field. providing a clear and concise lexicon of the biological analogue. and contrasting the two most promising analytical methods by which IE research may be carried out: life cycle assessment (LCA) and systems analysis. Although a number of comparative environmental metrics may be employed in cost-minimization or thermodynamic efficiency studies, no single measure is sufficiently developed to prioritize among qualitatively disparate types of environmental impacts. It is argued herein that the concept of chemical energy of mixing may be the most promising basis for the development of a uniform. broad-based measure of chemical pollution, and that such a measure could significantly advance a scientific approach to IE. Some theoretical background is presented, although the reasoning herein is intended to be accessible to an interdisciplinary audience. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Significant environmental improvements can often be achieved by integrating environmental properties as an optimisation parameter in product development together with more traditional values such as production costs, functionality, aesthetics etc. This paper presents a professional method intended for managers based on quantitative life cycle assessment to identify environmental 'hot spots' in a reference product's life cycle and to select new environmentally optimised solutions for a new product. The paper takes its starting point in traditional procedures for product development (idea. analysis. goal definition, concept development and detail development) and shows step by stop how the environmental properties of the new product can be optimised and thus contribute to the overall competitiveness of the new product. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Flooring materials, particularly ceramic and marble tiles, play a relevant role in the Italian economy since this country covers respectively 23% and 18% of the world output in this sector. In this paper a comparative Life Cycle Assessment between these two flooring material,,; has been carried out in order to identify the one with the best environmental profile and the hot spots of the two systems, The analysis has shown a better environmental profile for the marble tile. a particular relevance of the energy consumption in both the system and, in the ceramic system, the critical point has been found in the raw material used for the glaze manufacturing which are responsible. during the firing process. for the relevant arsenic emissions. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Identification and assessment of environmental aspects are crucial to an environmental management system, since significant aspects are decisive for other parts of the system. Stringency and transparency in identification and assessment are necessary if this process is to be reproducible. Reproducibility is in turn important for the credibility of the entire management system. A survey of the identification and assessment processes within the integrated forest product company Stora Enso has shown inadequacies regarding the reproducibility, Positive features and areas of improvement have been identified. The results of the survey are the basis for the development of a new, more reproducible method. This paper include
s an approach for this new method that focuses on the identification process. The method is based on life cycle assessment methodology according to the international standards ISO 14040-42 and the documentation format in ISO 14048. The environmental aspects are aggregated in a classification and characterisation into impact categories. The categories are then used as operations environmental performance indicators. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Hybrid life-cycle assessment employing input-output analysis has advantages over conventional methods. In the inventory phase of a hybrid assessment. the data collection and the boundary selection can be tailored by using structural path analysis. This technique was applied to recent Australian data in order to determine environmentally important input paths in terms of energy consumption. land disturbance, beater use. and emissions of greenhouse gases, NOx, and SO2, for all Australian industry sectors. Due to the complexity of inter-industrial transactions, up to third-order paths can be top-ranking. The identification of such paths is considerably more labour-intensive in conventional life-cycle assessments. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is conducted for four types of plain bearings used for automotive engines. Equivalent CO2 emission (ECE) is used as the index of the environmental impact for global warming, and is compared among different chemical compositions and different manufacturing processes. Three types of aluminum alloy bearings, all of which are in the market, show little difference in ECE, irrespective of different lining constituents or the addition of an interlayer. Copper-lead alloy bearings with overlay, on the other hand, show an ECE value approximately 2.7 times as high as that for the aluminum bearings, the increment originating from the overplating process. If higher fatigue resistance of the aluminum alloy bearings is taken into consideration and their size could be reduced maintaining the same level of performance, further advantage would be found for their use.Life Cycle Analysis of Post Weld Treated Steel Welds. The post weld treatment of cyclically loaded weld seams is known to increase fatigue lifetime considerably. The potential of these measures is particularly made accessible in high cycle fatigue (HCF) and infinite life at and below the endurance limit. The availability of a complete analytical algorithm is desirable in order to benefit from post weld treatment already in the design phase. The transferability problem can only be solved by taking into account all relevant influences of the material and the component. A proposition of this kind is made considering the individual phenomena according to the current standard of knowledge: Size, surface, plastification and mean stress effects are of particular interest in this context. The required local stresses are taken from numerical analyses e.g. based on the Finite Element Method (FEM).Considering the stable supply of electric power for a long period, the assessment of long term sustainability beyond, at least, several cycles of a lifetime of power systems is studied. It is necessary to assess long-term trend of these technology from the view point of sustainability, before making any policies decision. The present study intends to show the concept 
and an example of the sustainability assessment of two typical renewable-energy plants, photovoltaic and wind power. The first step is to consider trend in the past and to predict the future based on it. And the second step is to propose a quantitative measure to express current quality and recycling energy of materials of a plant. This energy is named as usable energy. Copyright (C) 2001 IFAC.A life cycle assessment was conducted to analyse the contribution of organic dairy farming in the Netherlands to ecological sustainability. Emissions of green house gases (g CO2-equivalents) and acidification potential (g SO2-equivalents) per line of milk were 14 and 40% less for organic than for conventional dairy farming in the Netherlands, respectively. Organic dairy farming, however, required 42% more land per litre of milk. Farm economic analyses have shown consistently higher family incomes for organic than for conventional dairy fanning in the last 5 years. The response of agriculture to societal demands for sociocultural sustainability is partly observed in the concept of multifunctional land use. Functions like landscape and nature conservation, recreation, water management and drinking water production are combined with agriculture on a regional basis. In contrast to conventional dairy farming, organic dairy farming is perceived as a relatively open and extensive farming system that complements such other land use functions. Socio-cultural sustainability also relates to moral values, i.e. what is considered good and bad. Organic dairy farming is generally perceived as a "good" way of fanning with regard to production method and care for animals, plants and soil, in contrast to the general perception of conventional farming. Moreover, organic food is often seen as more natural and more authentic than conventional food.Increasing awareness of environmental burdens has led companies and designers to initiate design for the environment (DFE) programmes, which consider the design of products from the 'cradle to grave' and is also known as 'life-cycle design'. In this paper, the use of a novel environmental performance technique to be used at the early stage of product design is presented. This technique, which is to be used as a framework for green product design, is demonstrated in this paper by evaluating the environmental performance between plastic and steel fuel tanks. The fuel tank comparison can be divided into five steps. In the first four steps, a modified house of quality (HOQ) is used to analyse the performance of fuel tanks in terms of requirements of environmentally conscious design. The final step is an overall assessment that synthesizes the results from the previous four analyses. As a result, the comprehensive environmental effects in the whole life cycle of fuel tanks are captured in the early stage of design.Nowadays it is widely accepted that the active Solar Energy Systems (photovoltaics, solar thermal, solar power) provide significant environmental benefits in comparison to the conventional energy sources, contributing to the sustainability of the human activities. To cope with their potential environmental implications an EIA is applied by using the LCA method. Additionally the technologies and techniques used to alleviate the environmental intrusion are presented.In this paper a systems based approach is presented for th
e design of an industrial production process by simultaneously considering its economic and environmental performance. A holistic assessment of the plant's potential environmental impact is achieved by performing a life-cycle assessment (LCA) in accordance with the Eco-Indicator 99 methodology of damage modeling. The design task is formulated as a multi-objective nonlinear programming problem where the trade-off between the conflicting interests is determined using a parametric solution technique. Using the resulting set of alternative solutions, the principles of multi-criteria decision making is illustrated by selecting the design that tries to equally satisfy the objectives.This paper investigates the integrated use of life cycle analysis and design for manufacture tools for product development. A strategy is described for managing the link between these two design tools, facilitating the synthesis of their contradictory outcomes. Critical to the success of the method is the rapid delivery of information through the development of simple computer-based implementations based on industry standard packages. Design for manufacture is well refined and methods of producing results quickly and easily already exist. This is not the case with life cycle analysis and a spreadsheet-based approach is under development. The emphasis of the research has been on supporting teaching, but it has wider applications to design in practice.The authors have previously described (6) the theoretical implementation of environmental issues within engineering curricula development by the Schools of Design and Engineering at the Nottingham Trent University. This paper describes both the continuing development of a tricycle 'running frame' together with a parallel attempt at pragmatic implementation within the syllabus using the vehicle of Product Design. The author (Crisp) has over a period of five years researched the area of support mechanisms for disabled athletes, which has led to the design of a running frame for both athletic and social use. It is now seen as a viable alternative mode of transport, recent developments focussing on a battery driven version for the able bodied. The Product Design Specification (PDS) for the developed frame incorporates many of the issues relevant to environmental concerns and the teaching thereof e.g., reuse of materials, life-cycle analysis, sustainability, ethics and morals. It is therefore timely to ask students to further develop and fine tune the running frame with these issues at the forefront of their PDS and subsequently to analyse and disseminate their design solutions and their reactions to working with the athletes.In this paper a modelling and simulation of an absorption solar cooling system is presented. The system is modelled with the TRNSYS simulation program and the typical meteorological year file containing the weather parameters of Nicosia, Cyprus. Initially a system optimisation is carried out in order to select the appropriate type of collector, the optimum size of storage tank. the optimum collector slope and area, and the optimum thermostat setting of the auxiliary boiler. The final optimised system consists of a 15-m(2) compound parabolic collector tilted 30degrees from the horizontal and a 600-l hot water storage tank. The collector area is determined by performing the life cycle analysis of the syste
m. The optimum solar system selected gives life cycle savings of Cpound1376 when a nonsubsidized fuel cost is considered. The system operates with maximum performance when the auxiliary boiler thermostat is set at 87degreesC. The system long-term integrated performance shows that 84,240 MJ required for cooling and 41,263 MJ for hot water production are supplied with solar energy. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Sustainability is the ultimate environmental claim for green marketing, as exemplified by light gauge steel studs and wood studs for residential construction. Comparing sustainability is challenging because it eludes precise definition and these two materials are vastly different in origin, service, and ultimate fate. Sustainability may be claimed through life cycle inventory (LCI) or life cycle assessment (LCA) of inputs for energy and other resources, and outputs for waste and pollution, This typically ignores the structure's significant usage phase and its disposal or recycling phase. Moreover, it does not provide a framework for evaluating sustainability relative to the effects of material production and construction on our natural environment for future generations. Now, however, the life-cycle stressor-effects assessment (LCSEA) methodology considers land use effects of material production on habitats and biodiversity (ecosystem disruption) as they impinge on sustainability. This paper discusses the final report of Scientific Certification Systems, Inc., "Analysis of Galvanized Steel Production Suitable for Residential Construction Based on Life-Cycle Stressor-Effects Assessment., A U.S. Case Study". Among its conclusions: the ecosystem disruption by steel production for residential steel studs is less than one percent of equivalent wood stud production. This demonstrates steel's contribution to sustainable construction for future generations.The methodology of Life Cycle assessment has been applied by the Ecobilan Group, a member company of PricewaterhouseCoopers to the sector of building. In the field of building, the choice of materials has to take Into account the whole building environmental balance, and not only the production of materials and construction phase impacts. At the use phase and end of life phases, the Impacts of the building are linked to the materials that have been chosen, taking Into account their performances, their life time, and their ability to be recycled The best choices of materials should be made considering the whole building en environmental balance, through L CA approach for example.This contribution focuses on the importance of sustainability in the building sector. The underlying idea being that sustainability and durability must be considered jointly. Different models are presented to determine the degree of sustainability, focussing on: the degradation factor, life cycle assessment, the Delft ladder of priorities, high-grade applications, design for recycling, design for disassembly, and the ecocost-value ratio. Examples are given of case studies in which these models have been applied successfully.While not a new idea, there has been considerable interest over the years in modelling waste management for decision support. Most current waste models fall into one of two categories: those based on multicriteria decision analysis and those based on life cycle assessment. Fo
r a waste management system to be sustainable, it needs to be environmentally effective, economically affordable and socially acceptable and must be accepted by the population affected by the waste management system. It has been identified in the literature that the applications of these models have limitations and none have considered the complete waste management cycle, from the prevention of waste through to final disposal. Most of the models identified assume that all options and decision criteria have already been identified and that the most important stage of the process is the actual evaluation of the alternatives using some form of multicriteria decision making technique or life cycle assessment. While this is important, for a waste management model or strategy to be sustainable, the identification of environmental, economic and social criteria and alternatives is a crucial stage of a successful waste management plan. Many of the waste management systems identified consider economic and environmental aspects, with very few considering social aspects. The outcome of these models also depends on who is making the decisions and on-the alternatives and criteria selected. In many cases, the community were not involved in the decision making process and the implementation of these models achieve limited success.The environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology was used in this study to calculate and compare the environmental burdens resulting from two different methods employed in the production of potable water in South Africa. One method employs conventional processes for the treatment of water and the other one is based on membrane filtration. All inputs (raw materials and energy) and outputs (products, by-products and emissions to air, water and soil) from the two methods were listed and quantified. These inputs and outputs cause different environmental impacts (global warming, ozone depletion, smog formation, acidification, nutrient enrichment, ecotoxicity and human toxicity) and the contribution of each method to each of these impact categories has been quantified, resulting in a score. The ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation) methodological framework for life cycle assessments guided this study. By using these methodologies and by tracing all the processes involved in the production of potable water to the interface with the environment, it was found that the main contributor to the overall environmental burden is the generation of electricity. This conclusion is valid for both methods investigated and in order to increase the environmental performance in the production of potable water the energy efficiency of waterworks should be increased.An industrial water recycling plant was recently commissioned in Durban, South Africa. As with any industrial activity there are environmental burdens associated with water recycling. To assess these burdens a relatively new environmental tool - the life cycle assessment (LCA) - was used. LCA is a systematic way to evaluate the environmental impact of a product or process. This study presents the environmental burdens associated with industrial water and identifies the areas for improvement for the processes involved for recycling water. It was shown that the majority of the environmental burdens for producing industrial water could be traced back to the consumption o
f electricity for the operation of the plant.In this paper, two fundamentally different urban wastewater systems are assessed from an environmental impact perspective. One system represents a centralised, high-tech, end-of-pipe structure c whereas the second system is primarily based on source-separation strategies. Using material flow analysis a in combination with evaluation methods based on life-cycle assessment the systems are evaluated by means of simulation and the results are discussed. A set of priority indicators for environmental assessments of urban water systems is suggested and applied in the analysis. Energy issues are also commented upon. The main intent of the paper is to present the principles of this type of assessment rather than detailed numbers for all possible environmental effects and hazardous substances emitted to air, water and soil. It represents one of several building blocks for a future multi-criteria decision-support system to evaluate urban water management from a sustainability perspective.Effects of urine separation on the environment and resource usage were estimated using the simulation package ORWARE. Measurements on the urine-separating system in the housing district Palsternackan in Stockholm and on the fertilising effect of the urine were used in the simulations. The tenants were at home 65% of the time and separated 65% of the urine. Under these conditions, urine separation decreased the waterborne emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus by 55% and 33% respectively. Compared to the conventional system, urine separation increased the flow from the wastewater system to agriculture of plant-available nitrogen by a factor of 28, phosphorus by a factor of 1.35 and potassium by a factor of 23. Urine is a well-balanced complete fertiliser with very low concentrations of heavy metals. Urine separation conserved energy as long as the urine was transported distances shorter than 221 km to the field with a truck and trailer. If all the urine had been separated and transported only 1 km, the energy saving would have been 36%. In this and in previous studies, urine separation proved to be an improvement over the conventional system as regards environmental effects and resource usage. A macroscopic assessment of the impacts of private and public transportation systems on the sustainability of the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) is undertaken from economic, environmental and social perspectives. The methodology draws upon the urban metabolism and sustainability indicators approaches to assessing urban sustainability, but compares modes in terms of passenger- kms. In assessing the economic sustainability of a city, transportation should be recognized as a product, a driver and a cost. In 1993, the traded costs of automobile use in the GTA were approximately balanced by the value of the automobile parts and assembly industry. But local transit costs 1/3 to 1/6 of the auto costs per person-km, in traded dollars, mainly because local labour is the primary cost. Public transportation is more sustainable from an environmental perspective. Automobile emissions are a major contributor to air pollution, which is a serious contemporary environmental health problem in Toronto. Public transportation modes are less energy intensive (including indirect energy consumption) and produce CO2 at an order of magnitude lower, although these 
benefits are partially undermined by under-utilization of transit capacity and the source of electricity generation. The social benefits of automobile use are likely more significant than costs in determining GTA residents' preferential mode choice. The speed and access of auto use provide important economic benefits, e.g. relating to employment and product choice. Nevertheless, offsetting the service attributes of private transportation are large social costs in terms of accidents. The costs of automobile insurance provide one tangible measure of such negative impacts. In order to improve the sustainability of the GTA, innovative approaches are required for improving the performance level of public transportation or substantially reducing the need for the service level provided by automobiles. Efforts such as greater integration of bicycles with public transit, or construction of light-rail systems in wide roadways, might be considered. But to be sustainable overall, a transportation system has to be flexible and adaptable and so must combine a mixture of modes.The Manchester urban area evolved rapidly in the early 19th century from a series of small towns to a major industrial conurbation with huge material flows and worldwide trade connections. A combination of the availability of nearby coalfields, canals, and free trade, which encouraged entrepreneurial enterprise, made Manchester into the 'shock' city of the industrial revolution. Rapid nucleated urban growth associated with industrialisation throughout the 19th century involved an exponential growth in materials transfers and in waste flows. The 20th century suburban dispersal of residential and industrial growth led to further increase in the impact of the urban metabolism, especially in terms of mass: distance of materials movement. The current post-industrial phase in Greater Manchester has to cope with the environmental and social legacies of its industrial past and with growing per capita materials consumption and increases in number of households despite a nearly static population of around 2.5 million. Changes in material flows, land usage and river morphology in Greater Manchester over the past 200 years have reflected changing technologies, industry, economics, social expectations and environmental legislation. Manchester had the first passenger railway, the first inter-basin domestic water transfer in the UK, the first urban smokeless zones and was part of a pioneering land reclamation partnership in the 1970s. Even so, the environmental legacy of industrial material flows constantly presents new challenges, from the cost of reclaiming contaminated brownfield sites to finding destinations for today's urban waste. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The paper addresses the issue of environmental sustainability of cities and proposes that Urban Design must simultaneously heed Ecology and deploy Technology. To achieve this, Urban Metabolism must become the central paradigm of both assessing urban unsustainability of the present cities and of seeking a model of the sustainable city of the future. The paradigm enables us to conceive of cities as dynamic negentropic systems whose sustainability can be enhanced by better organising their flows of environmental information. Ecologically inspired schools of urbanism have been with us for a long time but have tended 
to ignore technological solutions. Our reality is that human habitat is ever more artificial and that technology is all around us. Urbanists should embrace new technologies. A mix of clean environmental technologies (ET) with information (IT) and communication technologies (CT) is a key part of the solution. Information-rich, knowledge-intensive solutions are critical in enhancing the eco-efficiency of the city. An ecologically sound urbanism of the future will be both 'green' and 'smart'. Presently, the twin trends of 'ecologisation of urban technology' and 'technologisation of urban ecology' are contradictory and marginal. If correct political and consumer choices are made in the near future, the trends will converge and become mainstream. The anticipated intellectual, cultural, and economic shifts suggests the emergence a new design paradigm for all professions involved in the production of the physical urban environment - planners, engineers, architects, landscape architects. This paradigm - 'eco-tech design'- will set us free from the binary of the Natural vs the Artificial.
 Consideration of abrupt climate change has generally been incorporated neither in analyses of climate-change impacts nor in the design of climate adaptation strategies. Yet the possibility of abrupt climate change triggered by human perturbation of the climate system is used to support the position of both those who urge stronger and earlier mitigative action than is currently being contemplated and those who argue that the unknowns in the Earth system are too large to justify such early action. This paper explores the question of abrupt climate change in terms of its potential implications for society, focusing on the UK and northwest Europe in particular. The nature of abrupt climate change and the different ways in which it has been defined and perceived are examined. Using the example of the collapse of the thermohaline circulation (THC), the suggested implications for society of abrupt climate change are reviewed; previous work has been largely speculative and has generally considered the implications only from economic and ecological perspectives. Some observations about the implications from a more social and behavioural science perspective are made. If abrupt climate change simply implies changes in the occurrence or intensity of extreme weather events, or an accelerated unidirectional change in climate, the design of adaptation to climate change can proceed within the existing paradigm, with appropriate adjustments. Limits to adaptation in some sectors or regions may be reached, and the costs of appropriate adaptive behaviour may be large, but strategy can develop on the basis of a predicted long-term unidirectional change in climate. It would be more challenging, however, if abrupt climate change implied a directional change in climate, as, for example, may well occur in northwest Europe following a collapse of the THC. There are two fundamental problems for society associated with such an outcome: first, the future changes in climate currently being anticipated and prepared for may reverse and, second, the probability of such a scenario occurring remains fundamentally unknown. The implications of both problems for climate policy and for decision making have not been researched. It is premature to argue therefore that abrupt climate change-in the sense referred to here-imposes unacceptable costs on society or the world economy, represents a catastrophic impact of climate change or constitutes a dangerous change in climate that should be avoided at all reasonable cost. We conclude by examining the implications of this contention for future research and policy formation.The diagrammatic representation of climate change, adaptation and mitigation is important in conceptualizing the problem, identifying important feedbacks, and communicating between disciplines. The Synthesis Report of the IPCC's Third Assessment Report, 2001, uses a "cause and effect" approach developed in the integrated assessment literature. This viewpoint reviews this approach and suggests an alternative, based on stocks and flows. The alternative gives a much richer representation of the problem so that it includes the enhanced greenhouse effect, ancillary benefits of mitigation, the distinction between climate-change and other stresses on natural systems, and a more refined distinction between adaptation and mitigation. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All righ
ts reserved.The winter tourism industry has been repeatedly identified as potentially vulnerable to global climate change. Climate change impact assessments of ski areas in Australia, Europe and North America all project negative consequences for the industry. An important limitation of earlier studies has been the incomplete consideration of snowmaking as a climate adaptation strategy. Recognising that snowmaking is an integral component of the ski industry, this study examined how current and improved snowmaking capacity affects the vulnerability of the ski industry in southern Ontario (Canada) to climate variability and change. A 17 yr record of daily snow conditions and operations from a primary ski area in the region was used to calibrate a ski season simulation model that included a snowmaking module with climatic thresholds and operational decision rules based on interviews with ski area managers. Climate change scenarios (2020s, 2050s, 2080s) were developed by downscaling climate variables from 4 general circulation models (using both IS92a and SIZES emission scenarios) with the LARS weather generator (parameterized to local climate stations) for input into a daily snow depth simulation model. In contrast to earlier studies, the results indicate that ski areas in the region could remain operational in a warmer climate, particularly within existing business planning and investment time horizons (into the 2020s), The economic impact of additional snowmaking requirements remains an important uncertainty. Under climate change scenarios and current snowmaking technology, the average ski season at the case study ski area was projected to reduce by 0-16 % in the 2020s, 7-32 % in the 2050s and 11-50 % in the 2080s. Concurrent with the projected ski season losses, the estimated amount of snowmaking required increased by 36-144 % in the scenarios for the 2020s. Required snowmaking amounts increased by 48-187 % in the scenarios for the 2020s. The ability of individual ski areas to absorb additional snowmaking costs and remain economically viable in addition to the relative impact of climate change on other nearby ski regions (Quebec, Michigan and Vermont) remain important avenues of further research. The findings reveal the importance of examining a wide range of climate change scenarios and the necessity of including snowmaking and other adaptation strategies in future climate change vulnerability assessments of the ski industry and winter tourism in other regions of the world. We present a framework for evaluating the risks of investments in climate change mitigation projects to generate emission credits. Risk factors that influence the quantity of emission credits are identified for six project types. Since not all project types are affected by the same factors, diversification is a viable risk reduction strategy. We propose a methodology for quantifying risk and return of such investments, discuss data requirements, and illustrate it using a sample of voluntary projects. In our sample, the returns of an optimally diversified low-risk portfolio are up to 10 times higher than those of single projects, holding risk exposure constant. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.While quantification of the effects of NOx and water vapor is still at an early stage there is evidence that contrail formation could make a significant contribution t
o global warming. This paper builds on previous research that analyzed a policy of restricting air transport cruise altitudes to eliminate contrail formation. Our previous work [Transport. Res. D 7(6) (2002) 451], examined altitude restrictions in European airspace and concluded that this could be a beneficial policy for reducing climate change impacts from aviation. Since most of the flights in European airspace are short-haul flights, this paper evaluates the trade-offs between altitude restrictions, fuel burn and journey times for longer haul flights of up to 6000 nm. Our focus is on the North Atlantic and US airspace and we examine potential contrail fraction to determine optimal cruise altitudes for reducing contrail formation. Changes in fuel burn and travel times associated with flight levels of 18,000 and 31,000 ft for different aircraft types are analyzed. We find that, in most cases, CO2 emission increases would be unlikely to entirely counteract the benefit of possible reductions in contrail formation. For some aircraft types, the percentage increase in emitted CO2 was found to be strongly dependent on journey length. In general, journey times appear not to be a major issue except for some aircraft types. Our results suggest that reducing aircraft cruise altitudes could be a beneficial policy for mitigating climate change impacts from the aviation sector. This is clearly dependent on aircraft type and the distances traveled, but more importantly on ambient atmospheric conditions which can vary significantly between regions and due to daily variation. This suggests that real time flight planning to minimize contrail formation should be investigated as a possible climate mitigation policy. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.From a private investor's point of view transaction costs of project-based Kyoto mechanisms relate mainly to project management and interaction with government representatives. However, when analysing the cost effectiveness of project-based Kyoto mechanisms these transaction costs are often underestimated or completely ignored, due to limited data availability. This paper presents an analysis of transaction costs of project-based Kyoto mechanisms by applying cost estimates from comparable activities, for example, activities implemented jointly (AIJ). The findings show that transaction costs of AIJ projects range between 7% and more than 100% of production costs with 80% of projects lying between 14 and 89%. Furthermore the data clearly illustrate that "bigger" projects have lower specific project costs indicating the existence of economies of scale. Due to the fact that high transaction costs will push many promising projects out of the market, efforts should be undertaken to reduce transaction costs by improving procedures and business environments, for example, by standardisation. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.We have developed a new version of the MERGE model, called MERGE-ETL, to analyse the dynamics of endogenous technological learning (ETL) in the energy system. This paper describes the basic formulation of MERGE-ETL, the solving techniques used for this model and some first numerical results in the context of policies designed to mitigate global climate changes.Policy enabling tropical forests to approach their potential contribution to global-climate-change mitigation requi
res forecasts of land use and carbon storage on a large scale over long periods. In this paper, we present an integrated modeling methodology that addresses these needs. We model the dynamics of the human land-use system and of C pools contained in each ecosystem, as well as their interactions. The model is national scale, and is currently applied in a preliminary way to Costa Rica using data spanning a period of over 50 years. It combines an ecological process model, parameterized using field and other data, with an economic model, estimated using historical data to ensure a close link to actual behavior. These two models are linked so that ecological conditions affect land-use choices and vice versa. The integrated model predicts land use and its consequences for C storage for policy scenarios. These predictions can be used to create baselines, reward sequestration, and estimate the value in both environmental and economic terms of including C sequestration in tropical forests as part of the efforts to mitigate global climate change. The model can also be used to assess the benefits from costly activities to increase accuracy and thus reduce errors and their societal costs. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Numerous studies have shown that international emissions trading can significantly lower the costs of greenhouse gas (GHG) abatement. Economic models, however, ignore the substantial economic and political risks associated with investments in developing countries, where-according to these models-a large share of global GHG abatement takes place. We use a mean-variance approach to compute international portfolios of carbon abatement activities that balance low abatement costs and investment risks. Expected returns are derived from marginal abatement cost curves. The volatility of the growth rate of regional carbon dioxide emissions is used as an indicator of investment risk. We find, first, that well-diversified portfolios can significantly reduce investment risks. Second, the least-risk portfolio is distinct from the cost-efficient allocation based on equalization of marginal abatement costs, and much more costly to implement. This indicates that existing models which neglect investment risks overestimate the cost-savings due to international emissions trading. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Economic studies of climate change commonly discount the future at a rate equal to the long-run return on corporate stocks. Stock market returns, however, are dominated by a risk premium, while climate change mitigation measures would reduce important risks to future welfare. Drawing on the theory of investment behavior under uncertainty, this paper argues that the benefits of climate stabilization policies should be discounted at a rate equal to the annual return on risk-free financial assets, which attains an empirical value between 0 and 2.6%. In addition, expected benefits must be adjusted to account for the value of risk abatement.Fast growth tree plantations and secondary forests are considered highly I efficient carbon sinks. In northwest Patagonia, more than 2 million ha of rangelands are suitable for forestry, and tree plantation or native forest restoration could largely contribute to climate change mitigation. The commonest baseline is the heavily g razed gramineous steppe of Festuca pallescens (St. Yves) Parodi. T
o assess the carbon sequestration potential of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa (Dougl.) Laws) plantations and native cypress (Austrocedrus chilensis (Don) Flor. et Bond.), individual above and below ground biomass models were developed, and scaled to stand level in forests between 600 and 1500 annual rainfall. To calculate the carbon sequestration baseline, the pasture biomass was simulated. Also, soil carbon at two depths was assessed in paired pine-cypress-pasture sample plots, the same as the litter carbon content of both forest types. Individual stem, foliage, branch and root log linear equations adjusted for pine and cypress trees presented similar slopes (P > 0.05), although some differed in the elevations. Biomass carbon was 52.3 Mg ha(-1) (S.D. = 30.6) for pine stands and 73.2 Mg ha(-1) (S.D. = 95.4) for cypress forests, given stand volumes of 148.1 and 168.4 m(3) ha(-1), respectively,,Soil carbon (litter included) was 86.3 Mg ha(-1) (S.D. = 46.5) for pine stands and 116.5 Mg ha(-1) (S.D. = 38.5) for cypress. Root/shoot ratio was 19.5 and 11.4%, respectively. The low r/s value for cypress may account for differences in nutrient cycling and water uptake potential. At stand level, differences in foliage, taproot and soil carbon compartments were highly significative (P < 0.01) between both forest types. In pine stands, both biomass and soil carbon were highly explained by the rainfall gradient (r(2) = 0.94). Nevertheless, such a relationship was not found for cypress, possibly due to stand and soil disturbances in sample plots. The carbon baseline estimated in pasture biomass, including litter, was 2.6 Mg ha(-1) (S.D. = 0.8). Since no differences in soil carbon were found between pasture and both forest types, additionality should be accounted only by biomass. However, the replacement of pasture by pine plantations may decrease the soil carbon storage, at least during the first years. on the other hand, the soil may be a more relevant compartment of sequestered carbon in cypress forests, and if pine plantation replaces cypress forests, soil carbon losses could cause a negative balance. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.We demonstrate that when the future path of the discount rate is uncertain and highly correlated, the distant future should be discounted at significantly lower rates than suggested by the current rate. We then use two centuries of US interest rate data to quantify this effect. Using both random walk and mean-reverting models, we compute the "certainty-equivalent rate" that summarizes the effect of uncertainty and measures the appropriate forward rate of discount in the future. Under the random walk model we find that the: certainty-equivalent rate falls continuously from 4% to 2% after 100 years, 1% after 200 years, and 0.5% after 300 years. At horizons of 400 years, the discounted value increases by a factor of over 40,000 relative to conventional discounting. Applied to climate change mitigation, we find, that incorporating discount rate uncertainty. almost doubles the expected present value of mitigation benefits. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.Strategies to mitigate anthropogenic climate change recognize that carbon sequestration in the terrestrial biosphere can reduce the build-up of carbon dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere. However, climate mitigation policies do not gener
ally incorporate the effects of these changes in the land surface on the surface albedo, the fluxes of sensible and latent heat to the atmosphere, and the distribution of energy within the climate system. Changes in these components of the surface energy budget can affect the local, regional, and global climate. Given the goal of mitigating climate change, it is important to consider all of the effects of changes in terrestrial vegetation and to work toward a better understanding of the full climate system. Acknowledging the importance of land surface change as a component of climate change makes it more challenging to create a system of credits and debits wherein emission or sequestration of carbon in the biosphere is equated with emission of carbon from fossil fuels. Recognition of the complexity of human-caused changes in climate does not, however, weaken the importance of actions that would seek to minimize our disturbance of the Earth's environmental system and that would reduce societal and ecological vulnerability to environmental change and variability. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Examining the intersection of risk analysis and sustainable energy strategies reveals numerous examples of energy-efficient and renewable energy technologies that offer insurance loss-prevention benefits. The growing threat of climate change provides an added motivation for the risk community to understand better this area of opportunity. While analyses of climate change mitigation typically focus on the emissions-reduction characteristics of sustainable energy technologies, less often recognised are a host of synergistic ways in which these technologies also offer adaptation benefits, e.g. making buildings more resilient to natural disasters. While there is already some relevant activity, there remain various barriers to expanding these efforts significantly. Achieving successful integration of sustainable energy considerations with risk-management objectives requires a more proactive orientation, and coordination among diverse actors and industry groups.The. impetus for this paper is Canada's commitment under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions as well as reducing our dependency on fossil fuels. Wood-based ethanol offers an excellent opportunity for greenhouse gas mitigation due to market potential, an ability to offset significant emissions from the transportation sector, a reduction of emissions from CO2-intensive waste-management systems, and carbon sequestration in afforested plantations. While there are technological and economic barriers to overcome, using wood-biomass as a source of ethanol can be an economically viable tool for reducing greenhouse gas levels in the atmosphere. This paper examines the costs and mitigation potential of the production of ethanol from biomass supplied from industrial wood waste as well as from trees harvested from afforested land.Russian Kyoto related interests are economic and after the US withdrawal the mission of Russian actors has been to find new demand for Russian credits and allowances. Kyoto related benefits to Russia will be significantly smaller than earlier expected, however, the revenues are now more likely to be focused on climate change mitigation purposes. Competition in the Kyoto market has established buyers' m
arket and Russia has to accommodate the interests of investors in order to gain benefits. The Russian initiative 'Green Investment Scheme' to recycle revenues from International Emissions Trading (IET) to further environmental activities would convene demand for Russian AAUs but experience the same problems than the previous initiatives: inadequate institutional arrangement, unclear division of responsibilities between domestic actors, prolonged ratification process and lack of eligibility strategy. These problems have prevented implementation of GIS so far. Therefore, these problems have to be addressed by high-level Russian policy-makers if serious benefits from Kyoto are sought. Actors building alliances with Russia should focus on assisting with solving these problems. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Besides climate change mitigation, policies encouraging the conversion of agricultural land to forest may generate additional environmental benefits. We estimate the reductions in agricultural externalities (soil erosion, nitrogen, and atrazine pollution) from an afforestation program in Wisconsin. Existing benefits estimates are used to quantify the value of reduced soil erosion and some benefits from enhanced wildlife habitat. These values are the same order of magnitude as the costs of the carbon sequestration policy, indicating that the co-benefits of forest carbon sinks are an important factor for countries to consider in designing a portfolio of climate mitigation strategies.The impetus for this paper is Canada's commitment under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions as well as reducing dependency on fossil fuels. This research assesses the economic viability of using biomass from afforested lands and industrial wood waste as a feedstock for ethanol production to substitute for fossil fuels in the transportation sector. Afforestation can increase the size of the carbon sink and also provide a source of renewable energy. Ethanol offers an excellent opportunity for greenhouse gas mitigation due to market potential, an ability to offset significant emissions from the transportation sector, and reduce emissions from CO2-intensive waste-management systems. A case study of the economics of a hypothetical ethanol production facility found that a facility capable of producing 122 million litres of ethanol annually could have a net present value of CDN$245 million over a planning horizon of 36 years. This facility would require a supply of up to 960 oven-dry tonnes of wood-biomass per day and would result in net annual reductions of greenhouse gas emissions of approximately 349,000 tonnes of CO2. This includes the carbon sequestered through the afforestation as well as emissions avoided through fossil fuel substitution. Using biomass from afforested lands and industrial wood waste as a fuel for energy production can be an economically viable tool for reducing greenhouse gas levels in the atmosphere, reducing reliance on fossil fuels and reducing the sensitivity of transportation fuel prices to changes in gasoline prices.This paper discusses the contribution of biomass in the future global energy supply. The discussion is based on a review of 17 earlier studies on the subject.. These studies have arrived at widely different conclusions about the possible contribution of biomass in the future global 
energy supply (e.g., from below 100 EJ yr(-1) to above 400 EJ yr(-1) in 2050). The major reason for the differences is that the two most crucial parameters-land availability and yield levels in energy crop production-are very uncertain, and subject to widely different opinions (e.g., the assessed-2050 plantation. supply ranges from below 50 EJ yr(-1) to almost 240 EJ yr(-1)). However, also the expectations about future availability of forest wood and-of residues from agriculture and forestry vary substantially among the studies. The question how an expanding bioenergy sector would interact with other land uses, such as food production, biodiversity soil and nature conservation, and carbon sequestration has been insufficiently analyzed in the studies. It is therefore difficult to establish to what extent bioenergy is an attractive option for climate change mitigation in the energy sector. A refined modeling of interactions between different uses and bioenergy, food and materials production-i.e., of competition for resources, and of synergies between different uses-would facilitate an improved understanding of the prospects for large-scale bioenergy and of future land-use and biomass management in general (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd., All rights reserved.Ambitious claims have been made about the development benefits of market-based policy instruments for climate mitigation. We examine the implications of forest carbon projects for different aspects of equity and sustainable development. We apply a stakeholder multi-criteria assessment to explore the range of stakeholders, their roles, interests and perspectives, to a case study in Mexico. Two elements of equity, access to markets and forests, and legitimacy in decision-making and institutions, are discussed. Robust cross-scale institutional frameworks are necessary to ensure that objectives for equity and sustainable development are met and that already marginalised sectors of society are not excluded. These institutions are still developing and their establishment brings together many different stakeholders from government, private sector and civil society. However, the ability of the "new carbon economy" to provide real benefits for sustainable development may ultimately be constrained by the nature of the market itself. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The tolerable windows approach (TWA) allows the climate policy formulation process to be safeguarded in the following way. First, guardrails are defined in order to exclude intolerable climate change impacts, on the one hand, and unacceptable socioeconomic consequences of climate change mitigation measures, on the other. Second, a scientific analysis is conducted to investigate the features of those emission paths that are compatible with the guardrail constraints. The fundamental methodology of the TWA is best described in terms of the theory of differential inclusions. This emerging mathematical theory already provides numerical methods applicable as long as the underlying integrated assessment models are of limited complexity. In order to identify emissions corridors, we propose a novel calculation scheme applicable also for large-scale integrated assessment models.Desertification, the term used to refer to land degradation in dry areas, is a neglected aspect of global environmental change. It could affect a quarter of the E
arth's surface and, like global climate change, is the subject of an international framework convention. Yet while global climate change has been the target of an unprecedented international research effort desertification is under-researched, under-funded, and its very existence is even derided by some people as a myth. Greater convergence between the two fields of research would benefit both of them and global change research generally. Some features which the two fields have in common are identified and the reasons why so little is known about desertification are highlighted. Some of the scientific and policy benefits of bringing them closer together are listed. There is potential for greater synergy between research into desertification and global change against a background in which those bodies responsible for implementing the Convention to Combat Desertification (CCD), the Climate Change Convention (CCC) and the Convention on Biodiversity (CBD) are also looking for synergies of mutual benefit. This article focuses, for convenience, only on links between desertification and global climate change, but thin does not imply that desertification does not also have important impacts on the loss of global biodiversity too. The features that desertification and global climate change have in common are identified and the scientific benefits of greater convergence are outlined. The links between combating desertification and global climate change mitigation are reviewed.Denmark has pursued an ambitious energy policy of climate change mitigation in the last dozen years. The country has good wind energy resources, and these are being tapped to increasing extents. With a Scandinavian climate, Denmark also has a substantial potential for CHP (cogeneration of heat and power) based district heating, which likewise has been applied to increasing extents over the years. Much of the CHP is in the form of small local plants thus putting Denmark in its current situation with a high proportion of its power generation being beyond the control of the central dispatch leading to problems with load balancing and large power flows in the transmission system. Previous analyses have revealed that if no systematic changes are implemented, continued expansion of wind power and CHP in Denmark would require the large power plants to retain their pivotal position as far as load balancing is concerned. However, production shares would steadily decrease whereas fixed costs would remain unaffected thereby increasing the specific costs. The transmission system would need expansion both domestically and internationally to accommodate even higher flows. Such expansion would be costly as well as likely to generate public opposition. Introduction of scattered load balancing where even small CHP plants and other equipment are subjected to some form of central control will enable expansion without relying on the balancing capabilities of large power plants and abundant transmission capacity. This article analyses power flows in the transmission system with scattered load balancing under various climatic conditions with uneven distributions of wind power and uneven temperatures and thus CHP conditions in the country. Through modelling of the energy system and the transmission system, it is demonstrated that requirements of the transmission grid are minimised if scattered load 
balancing is implemented in a way that ascertains load balance is kept locally and not just on an aggregate national level. Based on the technical analysis it is hence concluded that there must be incentive structures that address consumption and production differently in different geographic areas depending on e.g. momentary climatic conditions. A system with even incentive structures throughout the country as presently existing is thus not sufficient as it only ensures a macro-level load balance.The probability that long-term geologic storage or sequestration of carbon dioxide (CO2) will become an important climate change mitigation strategy will depend on a number of factors, namely (1) availability, capacity and location of suitable sites, (2) the cost of geologic storage compared to other climate change mitigation options, and (3) public acceptance. Whether or not a site is suitable will be determined by establishing that it can meet a set of performance requirements for safe and effective geologic storage (PRGS). To date, no such PRGS have been developed. Establishing effective PRGS must start with an evaluation of how much CO2 might be stored and for how long the CO2 must remain underground to meet goals for controlling atmospheric CO2 concentrations. These requirements then provide a context for addressing the issue of what, if any, is an "acceptable surface seepage rate"? This paper provides a preliminary evaluation Of CO2 Storage amounts, time-scales, and concordant performance requirements.As part of its climate change mitigation initiative, BP is evaluating technologies for the separation and capture of CO2 from combustion sources, for subsequent geologic storage. Ansaldo Fuel Cells S.pA. is developing Molten Carbonate Fuel Cell (MCFC) technology targeted at industrial applications from 50 kW to 10MW. This paper describes the conceptual design of a hybrid MCFC system to generate power and simultaneously capture CO2 from small (<10MW) gas turbine exhaust streams. Initial modeling studies indicated that a 1.6MW MCFC could reduce the CO2 emissions from a 4.6MW gas turbine by 50% on a per kWh basis. Experimental studies are in progress to understand the system behaviour, operating envelope and impact of contaminants. Initial data from these investigations are presented, which confirm that the fuel cell can operate at sub-optimal CO2 levels with limited loss in power and efficiency.The establishment of bioenergy plantations on previously unforested land will generally involve carbon accumulation in aboveground biomass for some period before final use of the biomass for energy. The equilibrium level of aboveground carbon stock may be substantially larger than the level prior to the plantation establishment. Soil carbon may increase, decrease or remain approximately constant depending on plantation characteristics, climate, soil type and land use history. Thus, besides fossil fuel substitution, also changes in the carbon stock influence the climate change mitigation potential of bioenergy plantations. The Bonn agreement (COP6) opens up for the linking of biomass plantations with the crediting of plantation-induced carbon sinks. Our analysis of the case of Salix production in Sweden indicates that the revenues from such carbon credits could be substantial. Thus, the new opportunity for crediting of the carbon sink component of plantat
ions can have implications for the economics of biomass energy. It will also favor longer rotation periods and some types of crops over others, with annually harvested crops such as energy grasses having less incentive than short rotation forests.The impact of proposed changes in field operations and land use on fossil fuel consumption on Canadian farms was analyzed using a computer model of the mechanics of farm machinery. The model predicted tractor/harvester power needs (kW), implement sizes and work required (kW-h) to complete each field operation on model farms in Canada's four farming regions. These predictions were integrated nationally using crop area statistics. Farm fieldwork predictions were converted to volume of fuel (l), consumed fuel energy (PJ) and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Tg of CO2 equivalent). The model was used to assess the sensitivity of GHG emissions to reduced and zero tillage, removal of summer fallow from the Prairies, increased permanent cover (perennial forage), fuel type and timeliness strategies. These practices are all under consideration as carbon sequestration measures. While fossil fuel consumption is small in comparison to other terms in the agricultural GHG balance (such as nitrous oxide and ruminant methane), modeling on-farm fossil fuel consumption in response to these land management measures has a role to play in climate change mitigation strategies. The model and the sensitivity analysis described here can be applied in any country with mechanized agriculture. (C) 2003 by The Haworth Press, Inc. All rights reserved.Two linked topics concerning environmental issues at the WTO and their implications for MNEs are considered - namely, international business in the environmental goods and services sector, and the relationship of the WTO to the emerging climate change regime, particularly the Kyoto Protocol. Liberalization of barriers to international trade and investment in environmental goods and services could expand market access and otherwise change competitive conditions for multinational firms. The relationship of the WTO to the Kyoto Protocol is on the broader agenda of environmental and economic diplomacy. Decisions concerning these two sets of issues during the next few years will affect multinational firms' competitive positions, strategies and operations in many industries. For instance, the liberalization of barriers to trade and FDI in the environmental goods and services industry creates new international market opportunities for firms that want to expand abroad; it also creates new competitive threats in home markets. The chapter was in press when the WTO Cancun ministerial meeting collapsed in mid-September 2003.Landowner behavior is a major determinant of land use and land cover changes, an important consideration for policy analysts concerned with global change. Study of landowner behavior aids in designing more effective incentives for inducing land use and land cover changes to help mitigate climate change by reducing net greenhouse gas emissions. Afforestation, deforestation, reforestation, and timber harvest are the most frequent land management practices that influence forest carbon stocks and flux. Research studies provide estimates of how private landowners respond to market signals and government programs and how they alter land management. For example, landowners have te
nded to retain subsidized afforested stands well beyond program life in the United States, suggesting that similar programs for climate change mitigation could result in high rates of retention. At the same time, policy makers need to be aware that unintended consequences of policies can lead to significantly different outcomes than envisioned, including leakage possibilities. A case is made for growth of a new metadiscipline of sustainability science and engineering. This new field integrates industrial, social, and environmental processes in a global context. The skills required for this higher level discipline represent a metadisciplinary endeavor, combining information and insights across multiple disciplines and perspectives with the common goal of achieving a desired balance among economic, environmental, and societal objectives. Skills and capabilities that are required to support the new metadiscipline are summarized. Examples of integrative projects are discussed in the areas of sustainability metrics and integration of industrial, societal, and environmental impacts. It is clear that a focus on green engineering that employs pollution prevention and industrial ecology alone are not sufficient to achieve sustainability, because even systems with efficient material and energy use can overwhelm the carrying capacity of a region or lead to other socially unacceptable outcomes.We define key research questions as a stimulus to research in the area of industrial ecology. The first group of questions addresses analytical support for green engineering and environmental policy. They relate to (i) tools for green engineering, (ii) improvements in life cycle assessment, (iii) aggregation of environmental impacts, and (iv) effectiveness of a range of innovative policy approaches. The second group of questions addresses the dynamics of technology, economics, and environmental impacts. They relate to (v) the environmental impacts of material and energy consumption, (vi) the potential for material efficiency, (vii) the relation of technological and economic development to changes in consumption patterns, and (viii) the potential for technology to overcome environmental impacts and constraints. Altogether, the questions create an intellectual agenda for industrial ecology and integrate the technological and social aspects of sustainability.This paper attempts to bridge business ethics to corporate social responsibility including the social and environmental dimensions. The objective of the paper is to suggest a conceptual methodology with which ethics of corporate environmental management tools can be considered. The method includes two stages that are required for a shift away from the current dominant unsustainable paradigm and toward a more sustainable paradigm. The first stage is paradigmatic, metaphoric and normative. The second stage is a practical stage, which in turn, is analytic, descriptive and positive. The method is applied to common industrial metabolism tools of ecological footprints (EF), environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) and industrial ecology (IE). The application shows that all three tools can be used in business ethics, in particular, when the first stage of the method is applied to their use.Within the emerging concept of industrial ecology (IE) that belongs to the research and practical field of sustainable developme
nt (SD), the natural ecosystem evolution over time has been described as a metaphor that presents systems of type I, type II and type III ecology. Type I describes a situation when there was little life on earth and plenty of resources. In type II, the ecosystem starts to develop material cycles and energy cascades between organisms and species due to increasing amount of life and emerging scarcity of resources. In type III, the mature ecosystem stage, the system actors have developed nearly completely cyclic flows of matter, energy cascades and diverse interdependencies between them. This paper uses the metaphor in the three systems to develop practical models of type I, II and III industrial ecosystems for an economic system of heating energy and its evolution over time. First, the physical flows of matter and energy are described by using two contrasting case system characteristics, 'throughput' and 'roundput'. Throughput means linear material and energy flows. Roundput means material cycles, energy cascades and sustainable use of renewables, i.e., ecosystem type III. Second, the more structural and organisational features are considered with the characteristic of 'diversity' meaning diversity in resources, human involvement and economic actors and technology used. The case system development over time shown with our practical model of type I-III is radically different from the ecosystem evolution as described in the literature on the industrial ecosystem metaphor of type I-III. This conclusion as a research result, however, is tentative, because of the fuzzy and vague meaning assigned to a metaphor and its confusion with a practical model of industrial development in the industrial ecology literature.In her article 'Legacy of Waste or Wasted Legacy? The End of Industrial Ecology in Post-Socialist Hungary', Zsuzsa Gille [2000] documents the attempts and ultimate failures of Hungarian central planners to institute several decades ago an approach very similar to current industrial ecology and ecological modernisation perspectives. Gille deplores the fall of these institutions with the collapse of state socialism and suggests that current policy makers should adopt some of their features in an attempt to create a 'third road' industrial waste policy. This article suggests another interpretation of Gille's findings. We first demonstrate that industrial by-products recovery was widespread in market economics and that the central planning of industrial waste recovery had been advocated in previous decades in other countries. We then argue that Hungary's failure in this respect seems to conform to the so-called 'Austrian' critique of central planning. Implications for current policy-making are then derived from this analysis.Forestry, forest, pulp and paper industries provide important cases for environmental and ecological economics and for corporate environmental management, because of the large quantities of flows of material and energy that are derived from the natural ecosystem. Because of the natural capital intensive nature of its activity, the forest industry also offers a fruitful case study for industrial ecology (IE), the practical concern of which is the comparison of material and energy flows of nature to these same flows in economic and industrial systems. In this paper, the concept of an industrial ecosystem is reflected in a t
ypical local forest industry system in Finland, known as 'a local forest industry integrate'. We present a material and energy flow model that can be used to study forest industry environmental management and for the planning of environmental policies directed to forest industry. Flows of matter (biomass), nutrients, energy and carbon are described, and the waste utilization possibilities are considered. A local forest industry system can be a fruitful case for IE development as the cuttings of forests in Finland are below the renewal rate, material cycles, nutrient cycles and energy cascades are developed and the carbon dioxide (CO2) binding capacity of the forest ecosystem is maintained. The difficulties and barriers in light of the industrial ecosystem vision of a materially closed local system include the high export rates of paper, energy intensive production and problem displacement in waste utilization efforts. The presented material and energy flow model of forest industry environmental management is compared with a case of a local agricultural and food industry system. For agro-food sector applications, a different emphasis on the flows may have to be adopted than in a forest industry application. Copyright (C) 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.Industrial ecology represents an emerging interdisciplinary field of studying industrial systems in combination with their fundamental linkage with nature. An eye-catching characteristic at the basis of industrial ecology's scientific profile is its refreshingly unorthodox perspective of understanding nature as model, compared with other disciplines of understanding nature, e.g. in terms of 'sack of resources' or 'biophysical limit' as opposed to industrial systems. The idea of industrial ecology's appealing perspective is to balance the development of industrial systems with the constraints of natural ecosystems, analogous to an 'industrial symbiosis'. On the basis of initial efforts to conceptualize industrial ecology's underlying assumptions concerning nature, a philosophically focused approach of its characteristic perspective of understanding nature as model is presented. The contribution may provide industrial ecologists as well as other economists, engineers, scientists and policy-makers involved in the field of sustainability with an opportunity for accessible philosophical reflection, perhaps bringing to the surface their tacit frames regarding nature. Consequently, the goal is to gain greater conceptual clarity and to contribute to laying a solid foundation for industrial ecology's stimulating role when initiating change towards sustainability at large. Copyright (C) 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.In this article, I examine the relationships between new concepts of human activity in the environment and several prevention strategies used to plot a course toward sustainable use. Natural capitalism and industrial ecology are relatively new concepts that provide a framework for environmental management. Although the precautionary principle puts into policy a determination to prevent environmental damage before it occurs, natural capitalism and industrial ecology go beyond the prevention of environmental damage to the optimization of environmental interactions. The risk assessment tools necessary for preventive management continue to be essential. Howeve
r, additional tools are needed to go beyond prevention to optimization. A holistic, scientific approach to the human place within the environment is needed, including both interdisciplinary and large-scale research.Industrial ecology (IE) studies the physical flows of matter and energy within, and most importantly, between the natural ecosystem and the human industrial system, aiming to reduce the environmental burden of the flows. One of the applications used is to transform the industrial system linear 'throughput' material and energy flow that relies on imported non-renewables, on virgin renewables and produces wastes and emissions dumped to nature toward a cyclical and cascading 'roundput' flow that relies oil local/regional renewables and wastes. The paper constructs a key function or an anchor activity that integrates the throughput material and energy flows and changes them into the roundput model in a local/regional agricultural and food industry system in Finland. This key activity is able to simultaneously utilise and process waste flows from the main steps in the food products' life cycle (value chain) and produce energy and fertiliser to the different processes in the life cycle by using waste as a fuel and as a resource with value. Difficulties in achieving this vision in practice are discussed. The paper uses national data from Finland, regional data from the Satakunta region in southwest Finland and local data from the municipality of Huittinen in Satakunta. A methodology in which environmental, economic and social variables are studied with different 'what if?' scenarios for the roundput model and for the throughput model is presented.A methodology for rating the suitability of sites for the location of industrial facilities is formulated and applied to the case of a coal-fired power plant location. The methodology comprises two major interlinked components: the environmental plant location indexing component, which involves the identification, scaling and weighting of environmental sensitivity factors; and the impact analysis component, which involves the superimposition of the pollution generation impacts of an industrial facility on spatially gridded zones of various environmental sensitivities. For each rectangular areal unit defined by a square grid, the Unit Pollution Potential Index is determined by the severity and distribution of key environmental sensitivity factors and the coverage of superimposed pollutant effects as determined by contaminant fate and transport models. For any alternative site of a planned facility, the summation of the unit indices over the area of influence of the facility provides the quantitative Pollution Index, which can be used as a basis for comparison of alternative sites for planned facilities. For this paper, this methodology is applied to the hypothetical case of the siting of a coal-fired power plant in the northeastern region of the United States, in which three alternative sites are considered. The three sites: A, B and C yielded indices of 47.83, 47.91 and 47.6, respectively, indicating that site C is the most suitable for siting the power plant.This research describes a framework and case study application that merges fuzzy set methods, pollution prevention, and sustainable production concepts. There is a direct linkage between industrial pollution prevention, sustainability, a
nd the solution of large-scale environmental problems. This linkage stems from the inherent desire for economic production, while at the same time protecting the environment from further degradation. The methodology combines systems analysis under imprecise conditions with a life cycle assessment method that is able to accept imprecise data. Analysis of systems under imprecise conditions is accomplished through analysis of process flow diagrams using fuzzy set techniques. Introduction of imprecision into life cycle assessment is accomplished by integration of fuzzy set approaches into a decision support system utilizing multiple criteria decision making. The framework is described and a case study application of an industrial parts cleaning system using an open top vapor degreaser is presented. Results of applying the method show that: (1) It is well suited for analysis of complex systems in which input data is sparse and expensive to collect. (2) The proposed framework includes a decision support system that is able to consider life cycle assessment concepts, and is able to reconcile differing opinions on available options for modification of production systems, thereby leading to more sustainable solutions.In theory, industrial ecology is a powerful analytical tool that challenges us to think beyond a mechanistic, fragmented view of environmental problems (and solutions). Indeed, it provokes thinking about the holistic industrial system. Presently, however, the field tends to focus primarily on technical processes and quantitative, material-oriented analysis. This article invites a discussion about expanding industrial ecology's models by considering social systems analysis. Its purpose is not to argue for dismantling or replacing extant industrial ecology. Instead, by advocating that industrial ecologists link their perspectives with perspectives from social science, it is hoped that the existing strengths of the discipline can be augmented with an emphasis on social and broader systemic factors. This direction is consistent with more holistic thinking and the roots of the discipline.Nowadays, the urban utilities management is a real chaos. A systemic approach, defined by the researchers of the CREM as urbistics, can give to the public managers the tools for the sustainable city of tomorrow. Using microcomputers and the cabled TV network, the CREM manages a laboratory town at real scale. Every hour, various flows, like electricity, natural gas, district heating or drinking water are measured over 30 sites and visualized by a urban area network. This enable the urban utilities to better understand the consumption pattern and thus to improve the resources management. Nevertheless, the question was asked whether the environmental benefits of the management improvement overcome the impact of the necessary infrastructure of the monitoring. A life cycle environmental impact was performed to answer this question. In order to perform a first evaluation and to have the possibility to take into account the services, an Input-Output approach to Life Cycle Assessment has been used. The first task was to inventory the necessary infrastructure and to determine the effects of the monitoring system. The direct impacts are negative and include the necessary infrastructure: computers, electricity consumption, research funding, etc... The indirect impact
s are mostly positive: resource management to enhance the efficiency of the network, avoided building of a water tank possibility to dialog with the customers, etc... The ecoindicator 99 coefficients were used to evaluate the environmental impact. All these coefficients were evaluated for both the necessary infrastructure and the avoided impacts of the monitoring. The results show that the avoided impacts are 3 to 25 times higher than the real impacts. More data are needed to decrease the uncertainty linked to the estimation made. More work is needed to overcome the difficulties encountered when evaluating the indirect effects and allocating them to the use of the monitoring system. The monitoring system set by the CREM together with the city of Martigny is very promising and could help cities on their way to sustainable development. In particular, it could be very useful for the development of new urban area.Green chemistry and engineering is the design of chemical manufacturing systems to minimize their adverse affects on the environment. Thus, a primary goal of green chemistry and engineering is to reduce the environmental impact of chemical processes and chemical manufacturing while simultaneously enhancing the overall process performance. Although it is beneficial to simply reduce the use of organic solvents in chemical processes, green chemistry and engineering goes further, in that it evaluates the entire manufacturing operation to identify techniques that can be applied to minimize the overall process hazard, while maintaining economic practicality. Evaluation of the environmental impacts of the manufacturing process requires a systems approach and appropriate metrics that permit quantitative assessment of environmental hazards. Thus, this chapter begins with a discussion of the drivers for green engineering and the metrics through which processes can be evaluated. Then, the hydroformylation process is used as a case study to illustrate the way in which green chemistry principles can be applied to real processes. Two elements, are specifically highlighted: (a) the use of catalysts to facilitate active and selective chemistry and the immobilization of said catalysts within the reactor system, and (b) the development of processes based on benign reaction solvents, and the benefits that can accrue from simplified separations operations.The purpose of this paper is to indicate some initiatives ushering in changes in the configuration of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region Industrial Zoning System. During the last twenty years, the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region (RJMR) has suffered many modifications: a high urban concentration process, an increasing number of land conflicts, the construction of important highways and infrastructure devices and the growing deterioration of environmental quality. In this period, the industrial location was based on an industrial zoning developed in 1976. Today, the industrial settlement of the RJMR reflects its disorderly development, shown by tightly clustered industries outside industrial zones, as well as the use of areas defined as industrial zones for other purposes, mainly residential. This scenario clearly indicates that innovative management mechanisms, must be sought, based on cooperative initiatives that are grounded on-industrial ecology. Through the concepts relating industrial ecolog
y and interfaces with environmental issues, this paper-provides, inputs for discussions of re-designing the location of industries in the RJMR. In order to demonstrate the application of the concepts outlined above, an Industrial District in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region was selected as a case-study.Over the past decade, a new approach to environmental analysis has developed. Although the scope and definition are not yet completely fixed, the new field of "industrial ecology" focuses on reducing the environmental impacts of goods and services, on systems-based analysis of environmental problems, and on innovations that can significantly improve environmental performance. Industrial ecology has significant potential for U.S. environmental policy. But to establish a firm foundation for significant policy initiatives, there is a need for better understanding of the potential and limitations of a range of promising approaches including: (a) technological innovation, (b) voluntary and cooperative approaches to environmental management, (c) substitution of services for products, (d) recycling and reuse, (e) reduction in the amounts of materials used in products, and (f) substitution of scarce resources with those that are plentiful.Sustainability-a term originating from silviculture, which was adopted by UNEP as the main political goal for the future development of humankind-is also the ultimate aim of product development. It comprises three components: environment, economy and social aspects which have to be properly assessed and balanced if a new product is to be designed or an existing one is to be improved. The responsibility of the researchers involved in the assessment is to provide appropriate and reliable instruments. For the environmental part there is already an internationally standardized tool: Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Life Cycle Costing (LCC) is the logical counterpart of LCA for the economic assessment. LCC surpasses the purely economic cost calculation by taking into account hidden costs and potentially external costs over the life cycle of the product. It is a very important point that different life-cycle based methods (including Social Life Cycle Assessment) for sustainablity assessment use the same system boundaries.During recent years the role of industrial ecology is growing up due to the fact that this branch of industry is dedicated to elaborate and improved engineering facilities of environmental impact, and to develop closed, wasteless process cycles and industry. The neutralization of industrial waste, including the alumina refineries was developed to create and improve the water sewerage and gas and dust scrubbing facilities at the final stages of process; less attention was paid to establishing waste free technology. The basis of wastefree production is a complex processing of the ore using its components. The comprehensive way of alkaline alumosilicate ore practically excludes the solid and liquid wastes, typical for Bayer process as well as for conventional technology to produce the by- products. It can be achieved through the entire use of the products involved in the process, wide product range and diversity of thermal and hydro chemical areas. Production of catalysts and components for their production to be used in chemical, petrol and gas processing industry is one of the most promising ways to so
lve this problem. Production of calcium aluminate cement, silica white, zeolites, actived aluminium oxides and hydroxides, concentrates of rare alkaline metals processing alkaline alumosilicate raw materials not only reduce the production cost but also decrease effluents normally connected to this kind of production.Back in 1992, Hardin Tibbs [1] stated that 'in its complexity the global environmental problem resembles an iceberg; well-publicized environmental problems are the visible one-tenth above the surface'. In the same year in Rio, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development admitted the non sustainable character of development and through the publication of Agenda 21 tried to find a balanced and integrated approach to environment and development questions. Similar insights have led to the concept of Industrial Ecology which involves designing infrastructures as if they were a series of interlocking manmade ecosystems interfacing with the natural global ecosystem. Industrial estates are a common feature of today's industrial landscape and an effective instrument for industrial and economic development in many countries. One of the main directions of Industrial Ecology is the idea of 'eco-industrial park' (EIP) which includes the transition of an industrial estate into a more sustainable form. This paper discusses this transition from a systemic point of view. We consider the industrial estate as a system which inter-relates natural sources, energy, raw materials, wastes, final products, and labor. The transition from the existing industrial estate to a sustainable EIP can be accomplished from interventions in the structure and content of the elements of the system, as well as their interactions. Towards this end, we provide a systematic framework for transition and we discuss its application in a specific industrial estate in Greece. We concentrate in the first stage of our framework with respect to the industrial estate of Patras. More specifically, we investigate the issues of landscape, access and infrastructures. We reveal topics of possible intervention along these axes, which include building construction, water, waste and energy management, the connection of the industrial estate with the city of Patras etc.The increasing customer demand for green products and the extended producer responsibility in combination with other regulation and opportunities for profit have introduced the environmental parameter in supply chain design. Environmental requirements may considerably affect the operation of supply chains. The logistical, economic and social dimensions of the recovery and re-use of used products, components and materials, in particular, may have prime importance for the company and society as well. Until lately the main environmental concerns were related with the manufacturing and the disposal phase. Although this approach has helped companies and communities in their efforts against environmental degradation, it has not affected the number of products per household, energy consumption and waste, which have increased significantly and have led to larger environmental impacts. As a consequence, environmental analysts and companies have shifted the environmental focus from the manufacturing processes and the disposal phase to the design of the total supply chain of products so as to minimize the environmen
tal impacts in their whole life cycle. This paper investigates the environmental factors that contribute to the design and operation of closed-loop supply chains and the scientific approaches available for their analysis. The fundamental differences between the traditional (forward) supply and the reverse supply chains are analysed and discussed aiming at "closing the loop" in their ends and providing a framework for planning closed-loop supply chains. Indeed, the appropriate identification and planning of all life-cycle stages of a product, including its recovery and reuse, is necessary for the establishment and/or optimization of environmental policies. Any activity in the traditional supply chain may have an undesired impact on the reverse supply chain. And vice-versa, any disturbances in the ecological balance may affect production activities and social welfare in the long-term so that it is difficult to meet the strategic target of sustainable development. In this sense, the traditional supply chain is connected in both ends with the reverse supply chain to establish a perpetual cyclical operation. The analysis of the cost-effectiveness of schemes for the recovery of products is difficult; however, it is not sufficient to do so without looking at the whole process chain, combining the traditional supply chain aspects with the recovery ones. In this framework of analysis of environmental parameters in the design of closed-loop supply chains, the latter are viewed as an application field of Industrial Ecology and the analysis focuses on how they can benefit from each other.Engineering and economic considerations are typical driving forces behind the selection of specific chemicals used to manufacture consumer products. Only recently have post-consumer environmental impacts become part of the considerations during the initial phases of sustainable product design. Therefore, reactive rather than proactive strategies have dominated the consideration of environmental and health issues in this context. This study draws from case histories of Pb use in industrial sectors to produce guidelines for modeling possible outcomes of international initiatives to phase out Pb from electronics products where it is primarily used in solder alloys. Data are scarce on the fate and hazards associated with Pb in discarded products such as cell phones and computers, but the environmental health effects of Pb are well documented. Less is known about the fate and effects of proposed alternatives such as silver and bismuth alloys, but industrial convergence to Pb phase-out is deemed inevitable. Avoidance of hazardous alternatives requires quantitative assessment of trade-offs among product reliability, recycling potential, economic costs, public health, and environmental quality. Potential trade-offs are identified to avoid the loop holes that have plagued similar international initiatives to phase out Pb from other industrial processes under conditions of scientific uncertainty about alternative metals.Reuse of by-products in road construction is most often environmentally evaluated from the narrow perspective of the material itself, i.e. the material level. In this article, we argue that the current mainstream environmental evaluation of reuse of by-products in road construction should use wider system boundaries. In order to illustrate the importance of sys
tem boundaries to the final result, three additional levels that complement the material level, are applied to the environmental evaluation of reuse of by-products. In total these four levels of evaluation are, firstly, the material itself, mainly studied by leaching tests, secondly, the road environment studied by substance flow analysis, furthermore, a narrow life-cycle perspective and, finally, the industrial system level that. addresses the reuse of by-products in a broader sense. Methods and tools applied to different levels emphasise different environmental aspects and consequently they are appropriate for addressing different questions. However, especially for the evaluation of environmental aspects on the industrial system level, there is a need to develop the methods. To apply these four levels to the evaluation would broaden the knowledge about the environmental impacts of the reuse of by-products. We argue that current leaching tests have to be complemented by the broader system boundaries used in substance flow studies and in life-cycle assessments in order to discuss the use of resources and environmental impacts from a wider perspective. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved. Developed from chemical engineering principles and energy analysis, the life cycle assessment is an internationally standardized method that is able to account for upstream and downstream inputs and emissions related to the life cycle of a product or a service. It is generally considered the best environmental management tool that can be used to obtain an objective quantification of all the environmental impacts related with different solid waste management scenarios. In this study, it is used to assess the environmental performance of alternative solid waste management options that could be used in an area of the South of Italy suffering from a situation of weighty solid waste emergency. The extreme delicacy of the decision-making process to which the results have to contribute suggested increasing the reliability of the assessment conclusions by using a high quality of data and a deepened analysis of technical processes. An analytical comparison between three selected scenarios is reported with reference to some crucial environmental impact categories. The results quantify the relative advantages and disadvantages of different management schemes and suggest some possible improvements in design and operating criteria. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.One of the detrimental effects caused by the urban warming phenomena is the increase of energy consumption due to the artificial air-conditioning of buildings in summer. In greater Tokyo, the temperature sensitivity of the peak electricity demand reaches up to 3%/degreesC in recent years, and about 1.5 GW of new demand is required as the daily maximum temperature increases by 1.0degreesC. This huge demand for summer electricity is considered to be one of the common characteristics of big cities in Asian countries. In order to simulate this increase in cooling energy demands and to evaluate urban warming countermeasures from the viewpoint of buildings' energy savings, a numerical simulation system was developed adopting a new one-dimensional urban canopy meteorological model coupled with a simple sub-model for the building energy analysis. Then, the system was applied to the Ootemachi
 area, a central business district in Tokyo. Preliminary verification of the simulation system using observational data on the outdoor and indoor thermal conditions showed good results. Simulations also indicated that the cut-off of the anthropogenic heat from air-conditioning facilities could produce a cooling energy saving up to 6% with the outdoor air-temperature decrease by more than 1degreesC in the summer urban canopy over Ootemachi area. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The toxicity of o,p'-DDE (1, 1-dichloro-2-(p-chlorophenyl)-2-(o-chlorophenyl) ethylene) was evaluated in embryos of medaka (Oryzias latipes) following a one time exposure via nanoinjection. Medaka eggs (early gastrula) were injected with 0.5 nl of triolem (vehicle control) or 0.5 nl of 4 graded doses (0.0005-0.5 ng/egg) of o,p'-DDE in triolein. Embryos were allowed to develop, and fry were reared. Embryonic survival was monitored daily during the first 10 d until hatching and thereafter, on a weekly basis until day 59, at which time the fish were monitored for sexual maturity until day 107. In general, o,p'-DDE caused a dose- and time-dependent mortality. No changes in mortality were observed between the last two time points (day 38 and 59, respectively), and hence a 59 day-LD50 of 346 ng o,p'-DDE/egg was derived from the linear dose-response relationship. Prior to late stage death, only isolated cases of cardiovascular lesions and spinal deformities were observed, but were not dose-dependent. The lowest observable adverse effect level (LOAEL), based on upper 95% CI for regression line = 0.0018 mg/kg, and the LOAEL based on exposure doses = 0.5 mg/kg. Likewise, the no observable adverse effect level (NOAEL) based on linear extrapolation to 100% survival = 0.0000388 mg/kg, while the NOAEL based on exposure doses = 0.05 mg/kg. The nanoinjection medaka model has potential in the study of hormonally active compounds in the environment. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial applications of supply chain cost management, along with life cycle costing of goods and services, are increasing. Several industrial sectors, in particular the automotive, electronics, and primary materials, have engaged in programs to coordinate upstream and downstream activities to reduce environmental burdens. At the same time, there is an increasing need to pass on information on product, material, and energy flows along the supply chain, as well as to provide data on the use and end-of-life phases of goods and services. Therefore, methods to analyze, assess, and manage these flows, from an economic as well as an environmental perspective, are of essential importance, particularly in established large-scale industries where suppliers are increasingly challenged to provide comprehensive cost and environmental information. in this context, a life cycle costing analysis (LCC) conducted aspart of life cycle management activities, can provide important opportunities. Therefore, this paper focuses on a life cycle assessment (LCA)-based LCC method, which utilizes an LCA model as a basis for cost estimations in product development and planning. A case study on life cycle costing of wastewater treatment illustrates the practical use and benefits of the method.Resource conservation and waste management have become two sides of the same argument. According to the Institute 
for Local Self Reliance in the U.S., the recycling revolution begun in the 1960s was a reaction "to the levels of waste in our economy and the pollution and suffering these habits cause worldwide" [1, 2]. However, the recycling target-setting of the early 1990s was focused on diversion from landfill, and it has taken another 10 years for the focus to shift back to the resource values approach, driven largely by the application of Life Cycle Assessment to the waste management system. This paper examines materials in the waste stream to determine the "value proposition" in each material group, and to examine options for efficient resource use and recovery. Specifically, it discusses waste management issues associated with clean fill, food waste, timber waste, concrete and bricks, green waste, paper and board, metals, plastics, and glass.The overall aim of this paper is to provide an understanding of the environmental issues involved in the early stages of product development, and the capacity of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) techniques to address these issues. The paper aims to outline the problems for the designer in evaluating the environmental benignity of a product from the outset, and to provide a framework for decision support based on the performance evaluation at different stages of the design process. The barriers that prevent product developers from using LCA are presented, as well as opportunities for introducing environmental criteria in the design process by meeting the designer's information requirements at the different life cycle stages. This can lead to an in-depth understanding of the attitudes of product developers towards the subject area, and an understanding of possible future directions for product development. This paper introduces an Environmentally Conscious Design method, and presents trade-offs between design degrees of freedom and environmental solutions. Life cycle design frameworks and strategies are also addressed. The paper collects experiences and ideas around the state-of-the-art in eco-design, from literature and personal experience, and provides eco-design life cycle assessment strategies. The end result of this presentation is to define the requirements for performance measurement techniques, and the environment needed to support life cycle evaluation throughout the evaluation of early stages of a product system.The movement to buy "environmentally-friendly" products was recently reinvigorated by the signing of the 2002 Farm Act that requires all federal agencies to give preference to products made, in whole or significant part, from bio-based material. This paper addresses the reality behind widely held beliefs regarding "green" issues, and shows bow complex it can be to choose among alternative products. Examples are presented in which the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) used different approaches, all based on life cycle assessment (LCA), to evaluate the environmental trade-offs of bio-based alternatives. These examples incorporate various combinations of life cycle inventory (LCI) and life cycle impact assessment (LCIA). The first example presents results of a USEPA Office of Research & Development (ORD) project called the Framework for Responsible Environmental Decision-Making (FRED). The FRED framework uses a set of impact categories in an LCIA. Motor oil, wall insulation, and asphalt co
ating alternatives were all studied using FRED. The second example is a pilot study in the USEPA's Environmentally Preferable Purchasing program. Using a mix of LCI and LCIA, transformer oil and bard surface cleaner alternatives were evaluated. Finally, the paper presents preliminary LCI results of another ORD effort comparing fuel additives ethanol and MTBE. These examples demonstrate that the move to bio-based products is not an across-the-board "win" for the environment. While LCAs cannot, at this time, provide a definitive answer as to the prefer-ability of bio-based products, it is the best tool to identify environmental trade-offs, thereby providing additional information to support decision-making.We define key research questions as a stimulus to research in the area of industrial ecology. The first group of questions addresses analytical support for green engineering and environmental policy. They relate to (i) tools for green engineering, (ii) improvements in life cycle assessment, (iii) aggregation of environmental impacts, and (iv) effectiveness of a range of innovative policy approaches. The second group of questions addresses the dynamics of technology, economics, and environmental impacts. They relate to (v) the environmental impacts of material and energy consumption, (vi) the potential for material efficiency, (vii) the relation of technological and economic development to changes in consumption patterns, and (viii) the potential for technology to overcome environmental impacts and constraints. Altogether, the questions create an intellectual agenda for industrial ecology and integrate the technological and social aspects of sustainability.We examine the possibilities for a "greener" car that would use less material and fuel, be less polluting, and would have a well-managed end-of-life. Light-duty vehicles are fundamental to our economy and will continue to be for the indefinite future. Any redesign to make these vehicles greener requires consumer acceptance. Consumer desires for large, powerful vehicles have been the major stumbling block in achieving a "green car". The other major barrier is inherent contradictions among social goals such as fuel economy, safety, low emissions of pollutants, and low emissions of greenhouse gases, which has led to conflicting regulations such as emissions regulations blocking sales of direct injection diesels in California, which would save fuel. In evaluating fuel/vehicle options with the potential to improve the greenness of cars [diesel (direct injection) and ethanol in internal combustion engines, battery-powered, gasoline hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel cells], we find no option dominates the others on all dimensions. The principles of green design developed by Anastas and Zimmerman and the use of a life cycle approach provide insights on the key sustainability issues associated with the various options.Annual plastic flows through the business and consumer electronics manufacturing supply chain include nearly 3 billion lb of high-value engineering plastics derived from petroleum. The recovery of resource value from this stream presents critical challenges in areas of materials identification and recycling process design that demand new green engineering technologies applied together with life cycle assessment and ecological supply chain analysis to create viable plastics-to-plast
ics supply cycles. The sustainable recovery of potentially high-value engineering plastics streams requires that recyclers either avoid mixing plastic parts or purify later by separating smaller plastic pieces created in volume reduction (shredding) steps. Identification and separation constitute significant barriers in the plastics-to-plastics recycling value proposition. In the present work, we develop a model that accepts randomly arriving electronic products to study scenarios by which a recycler might identify and separate high-value engineering plastics as well as metals. Using discrete event simulation, we compare current mixed plastics recovery with spectrochemical plastic resin identification and subsequent sorting. Our results show that limited disassembly with whole-part identification can produce substantial yields in separated streams of recovered engineering thermoplastics. We find that disassembly with identification does not constitute a bottleneck, but rather, with relatively few workers, can be configured to pull the process and thus decrease maximum staging space requirements.This paper attempts to bridge business ethics to corporate social responsibility including the social and environmental dimensions. The objective of the paper is to suggest a conceptual methodology with which ethics of corporate environmental management tools can be considered. The method includes two stages that are required for a shift away from the current dominant unsustainable paradigm and toward a more sustainable paradigm. The first stage is paradigmatic, metaphoric and normative. The second stage is a practical stage, which in turn, is analytic, descriptive and positive. The method is applied to common industrial metabolism tools of ecological footprints (EF), environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) and industrial ecology (IE). The application shows that all three tools can be used in business ethics, in particular, when the first stage of the method is applied to their use.In the early phases of the product life cycle, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is recently used to support the decision-making for the product concepts, and the best alternative can be selected based on its estimated LCA and benefits. Both the lack of detailed information and time for a full LCA for a various range of design concepts need a new approach for the environmental analysis. This paper explores a new approximate LCA methodology for the product concepts by grouping products according to their environmental characteristics and by mapping product attributes into environmental impact driver (EID) index. The relationship is statistically verified by exploring the correlation between total impact indicator and energy impact category. Then, a neural network approach is developed to predict an approximate LCA of grouping products in conceptual design. Trained learning algorithms for the known characteristics of existing products will quickly give the result of LCA for newly designed products. The training is generalized by using product attributes for an EID in a group as well as another product attributes for the other EIDs in other groups. The neural network model with back propagation algorithm is used, and the results are compared with those of multiple regression analysis. The proposed approach does not replace the full LCA but it would give some useful guidelines f
or the,design of environmentally conscious products in conceptual design phase.Sustainability in the development and manufacture of new products is a strategy that is widely accepted in principle, although not yet widely practiced. The integration of environmental requirements throughout the entire lifetime of a product needs a new way of thinking and new decision tools to be applied. This paper describes the concept of an approach to product development, based on a paradigm for sustainable manufacturing. Four examples of methodologies and decision tools are discussed, representing the most important sources of environmental impacts of a product. The emphasis lies on the integrating concept rather than on the details of the methodologies. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Directive 1994/62 concerning packaging and packaging waste and Directive 1999/31 related to waste disposal will substantially modify the management and treatment of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) in Europe. In this study, a life cycle analysis has been carried out of the different possibilities of managing Municipal Solid Waste in Asturias. The "Integrated Waste Management" (IWM-1) model was employed, analysing the different alternatives for collection and treatment of MSW This model predicts overall environmental burdens of MSW management systems and includes a parallel economical model. The sources of costs in the different systems of collection and treatment of MSW were considered in the economical analysis, as well as the Sources of resource gathering that may be obtained via the sale of recovered materials. What emerges from this Study is the soundness of management strategies based on biological treatment technologies in comparison with thermal treatments, together with the need to increase the level of collection at source.In this study, we compare and contrast the impact of recent technological developments in large biomass-fired and natural-gas-fired cogeneration and condensing plants in terms of CO2 mitigation costs and under the conditions of a competitive electricity market. The CO2 mitigation cost indicates the minimum economic incentive required (e.g. in the form of a carbon tax) to equal the cost of a less carbon extensive system with the cost of a reference system. The results show that CO2 mitigation costs are lower for biomass systems than for natural gas systems with decarbonization. However, in liberalized energy markets and given the socio-political will to implement carbon extensive energy systems, market-based policy measures are still required to make biomass and decarbonization options competitive and thus help them to penetrate the market. This cost of cogeneration plants, however, depends on the evaluation method used. If we account for the limitation of heat sinks by expanding the reference entity to include both heat and power, as is typically recommended in life-cycle analysis, then the biomass-based gasification combined cycle (BIG/CC) technology turns out to be less expensive and to exhibit lower CO2 mitigation costs than biomass-fired steam turbine plants. However, a heat credit granted to cogeneration systems that is based on avoided cost of separate heat production, puts the steam turbine technology despite its lower system efficiency at an advantage. In contrast, when a crediting method based on avoided electricity production in 
natural-gas-fired condensing plants is employed, the BIG/CC technology turns out to be more cost-competitive than the steam turbine technology for carbon tax levels beyond about $150/t C. Furthermore, steam turbine plants are able to compete with natural-gas-fired cogeneration plants at carbon tax levels higher than about $ 90/t C. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A comprehensive case study life cycle assessment (LCA) was conducted of a 7300 m(2), six-story building with a projected 75 year life span, located on the University of Michigan campus. The bottom three floors and basement are used as classrooms and open-plan offices; the top three floors are used as hotel rooms. An inventory of all installed materials and material replacements was conducted covering the building structure, envelope, interior structure and finishes, as well as the utility and sanitary systems. Computer modeling was used to determine primary energy consumption for heating, cooling, ventilation, lighting, hot water and sanitary water consumption. Demolition and other end-of-life burdens were also inventoried. The primary energy intensity over the building's life cycle is estimated to be 2.3 x 10(6) GJ, or 316 GJ/m(2). Production of building materials, their transportation to the site as well as the construction of the building accounts for 2.2% of life cycle primary energy consumption. HVAC and electricity account for 94.4% of life cycle primary energy consumption. Water services account for 3.3% of life cycle primary energy consumption, with water heating being the major factor, due to the presence of hotel rooms in this building. Building demolition and transportation of waste, accounts for only 0.2% of life cycle primary energy consumption. All impact categories measured (global warming potential, ozone depletion potential, acidification potential, nutrification potential and solid waste generation) correlate closely with primary energy demand. The challenges in developing a life cycle model of a complex dynamic system with a long service life are explored and the implications for future designs are discussed. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The life cycle inventory (LCI) of the electric power generation plays a vital role on LCIs of the industrial products. However there are no formal life cycle assessment (LCA) studies in Indonesia so far due to limited number of LCA expertise and lack of sufficient databases relevant to domestic conditions. The objective of this study is to introduce life cycle assessment (LCA) method for Indonesian electric power generation systems and to establish LCI for electricity grid mix of Indonesia. In this paper, the emissions of CO2, SO2, NOx, CO, CH4, NMHC, N2O, Dust (SPM), Ni, As, Cd, Cr, Hg, Pb, Zn per kWh of electricity generated were estimated for the systems using a combined method of process analysis and input-output analysis. Additional analyses on the impacts of emerging and future technologies as well as the influences of changes of various assumptions are helpful for a better understanding. As the result, the LCA evaluations are discussed for further ecological improvement.There are several options for the use of recycled materials in constructions. For every option a number of technical and environmental aspects are relevant. This paper describes several models which can be used to take the optimal
 decision. In general the world-wide used Life Cycle Assessment can be used as a multi-parameter model for the environmental effects. A new single indicator model, the Eco-costs/Value ratio simplifies the decision process. For waste management the model called Delft Ladder is developed. The approach called Design for Recycling can be used to optimize design or constructions for later reuse. In the same way, the Design for Disassembly can be used for demolition. For the technical aspects two models were developed concerning degradation processes and high-graded applications.Civil engineering infrastructure is generally maintained in accordance with safety, economic and technical issues. But what of the environmental impact of such activities? Regular maintenance can have a significant environmental impact-particularly in the case of bridges, where closure can result in traffic jams and lengthy detours. Higher cost but lower maintenance components and transfer of structures to lower-grade sites are Possible answers which, until now, have been difficult to assess. This paper reports on a life-cycle assessment method developed to factor environmental impact into bridge maintenance strategy. Though developed for bridges, it has potential application throughout the facilities management sector.The environmental performance of hemp based natural fiber mat thermoplastic (NMT) has been evaluated in this study by quantifying carbon storage potential and CO2 emissions and comparing the results with commercially available glass fiber composites. Non-woven mats of hemp fiber and polypropylene matrix were used to make NMT samples by film-stacking method without using any binder aid. The results showed that hemp based NMT have compatible or even better strength properties as compared to conventional flax based thermoplastics. A value of 63 MPa for flexural strength is achieved at 64% fiber content by weight. Similarly, impact energy values (84-154 J/m) are also promising. The carbon sequestration and storage by hemp crop through photosynthesis is estimated by quantifying dry biomass of fibers based on one metric ton of NMT. A value of 325 kg carbon per metric ton of hemp based composite is estimated which can be stored by the product during its useful life. An extra 22% carbon storage can be achieved by increasing the compression ratio by 13% while maintaining same flexural strength. Further, net carbon sequestration by industrial hemp crop is estimated as 0.67 ton/h/year, which is compatible to all USA urban trees and very close to naturally, regenerated forests. A comparative life cycle analysis focused on non-renewable energy consumption of natural and glass fiber composites shows that a net saving of 50 000 MJ ( similar to 3 ton CO2 emissions) per ton of thermoplastic can be achieved by replacing 30% glass fiber reinforcement with 65% hemp fiber. It is further estimated that 3.07 million ton CO, emissions (4.3% of total USA industrial emissions) and 1.19 million m(3) crude oil (1.0% of total Canadian oil consumption) can be saved by substituting 50% fiber glass plastics with natural fiber composites in North American auto applications. However, to compete with glass fiber effectively, further research is needed to improve natural fiber processing, interfacial bonding and control moisture sensitivity in longer run. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All 
rights reserved.In certain fleet systems, the environmental impacts of operation are, to some extent, a controllable function of vehicle routing and scheduling decisions. However, little prior work has considered environmental impacts in fleet vehicle routing and scheduling optimization, in particular, where the impacts were assessed systematically utilizing life-cycle impact assessment methodologies such as those described by the Society of Environmental Chemistry and Toxicology. Here a methodology is presented for the joint optimization of cost, service, and life-cycle environmental consequences in vehicle routing and scheduling, which we develop for a demand-responsive (paratransit or dial-a-ride) transit system. We demonstrate through simulation that, as a result of our methodology, it is possible to reduce environmental impacts substantially, while increasing operating costs and service delays only slightly. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The extending trade with agricultural products and food stuff has, caused by the transport of these goods, an increasing effect on the environment and human health. To analyse the effects of transport on regional, national, European and global level a life cycle assessment model for trading is developed. On this basis the life cycle assessment of a supraregional standard basket is elaborated. In contrast the routes of transportation of a regional standard basket, based on the range of food stuffs of a retail enterprise, are captured in a life cycle assessment. The regional standard basket causes merely a third to half of the damage to the environment in each category of effects, compared to the supraregional standard basket. The potentials to reduce these effects can be seen in direct correlation to the trade structure of the investigated enterprise. The negative effects on the environment can be diminished if the efficiency of the means of transport is increased or the distances of transporting are reduced. As the investigated example illustrates, the regional trade with food stuff and agricultural products offers a large potential for a reduced usage of resources and the protection of the environment. Through co-operation with the food retail trade this potential could be acquired by many regional initiatives as well.Age-specific demographic data are not available for many species of conservation concern, and conservation biologists must rely on incomplete demographic data which can be collected much more easily. Models that allow demographic analyses based on incomplete demographic data have recently received substantial attention. Such models (hereafter, partial life-cycle models) are particularly appropriate for situations where age-specific demographic data are not available, and when perturbation analyses involving ages at first and last reproduction are desired. Here, I present a partial life-cycle model appropriate for the analyses of incomplete demographic data collected from post-breeding censuses when estimates of age at last reproduction are not available. Using example calculations, I have shown that results of the simple model resemble those obtained from corresponding age-structured models, and that ignoring age at last reproduction for demographic analyses of long-lived organisms results in little or no loss of information. These results justify the use of the simple mod
el presented here, and should be encouraging to investigators working on long-lived organisms for which estimates of age at last reproduction are rarely available. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This paper deals with the exergy analysis (EXA) of plaster materials and ranks the environmental burdens due to the production of such materials. The calculation of the exergy loss during the whole examined process represents a relevant index, looking at the technology improvement of a process, as a suitable tool in aid of the trade-off of alternative materials in the decision making. A life cycle inventory is performed for building plaster products and the matrix method is used. The authors extend the application of EXA to life cycle assessment, conducting an,exergetic life cycle assessment, and propose an exergetic index in the framework of multi-criteria decision making., An exergy balance, accounting for energy and material flows, is applied to calculate the exergy losses and efficiencies for each stage of the examined processes: resources extraction, materials processing, transport and product manufacturing. Furthermore, exergy values are calculated for the pollutants and wastes. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Reducing and recycling automobile shredder residue (ASR) are important to improve the recycling rate of end-of-life vehicles (ELVs). In this paper, we discuss the concept of applying life cycle assessment (LCA), LCA case studies (landfill of ASR, energy recovery of ASR), and LCA issues concerning ELVs, and we introduce trends in LCA application to new technologies, aimed at achieving a recycling rate of 95%. (C) 2003 Society of Automotive Engineers of Japan, Inc. and Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.New method of environmental load estimation for scraps and by-products production in Life cycle inventory (LCI) based on Input-Output table (I/O table) has been developed. And a new description method of I/O table with scraps and by-products sections for the estimation is developed. In this study, both scraps and by-products are regarded as products, and are dealt with as an independent section in I/O table, respectively. By means of this method, the energy consumption and CO2 emission of process-scrap steel production are estimated as an example study. And a weighted average value of energy consumption and that of CO2 emission with consideration to the monetary amounts of production of process-scrap steel were calculated by using the estimated data, respectively. Moreover, a reliability of the estimated data is analyzed. And LCI of converter steel and EAF steel are done in order to evaluate an influence by differences of data. As a result, when the value of a process scrap was assumed to be zero, the energy consumption rates of zero against the maximum is estimated 0.5% for the converter steel, and 20.4% for the EAF steel, respectively. Therefore, in case of converter, it is possible to treat the environmental load of a process scrap for nothing in approximation.Different options for wastewater treatment have different performance characteristics and also different direct impacts on the environment. These impacts occur over the whole life cycle of the treatment system. Natural wastewater systems such as the reedbed may offer reduced whole life cycle environmental impacts compared to systems with more technic
al and material sophistication. This paper describes a study of the life cycle impacts of two options for smallscale wastewater treatment which are a horizontal flow reedbed system and a package bio-filtration plant. The study is limited to impacts during the construction and operation phases. Energy use, CO2 emission and solid emissions were chosen as the environmental aspects. It was found that overall the reedbed and conventional systems were quite similar in terms of life cycle energy use. Transport occurring during construction and operational maintenance was a key contributor to energy use and CO2 emissions. The environmental impact of the reedbed reduced if the soil excavated on site was suitable for re-use in the infill. The effect on the results of the different assumptions made during the study was checked using sensitivity analysis. This analysis also helped us to identify recommendations for reducing the life cycle impact of the reedbed system. (C) 2003 Published by Elsevier B.V.The socio-economic studies of fusion from various aspects are performed by Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute (JAERI) and its collaborators in Japan, where steady-state tokamaks have been designed as a promising candidate. Energy model analysis estimates the significant contribution of fusion in the latter half of the century under the global environment constraints if it will successfully developed and introduced into the market. Application to fuel production process such as hydrogen by utilizing heat is designed to increase possible contribution for energy supply further. Operation without initial tritium loading liberates fusion from fuel supply constraints, and has an effect to rapidly increase fusion share. Externality of fusion energy is analyzed by CO2 emission, impact pathway of tritium, rad-waste, and some social impacts. These results are expected to answer the questions on significance of fusion development, and improve the plant design and development strategy to maximize the benefit of fusion research. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.In Switzerland, communities are encouraged to define and to report on local Agenda 21. This paper presents an analysis framework to help local communities set sustainable development priorities and to follow through with appropriate actions. Four Swiss communities, from the French-speaking part of Switzerland, actively follow the project: Lausanne (114 304 citizens),Vevey (15 364 citizens), Mannens-Grandsivaz (505 citizens) and Essertines/Yverdon (666 citizens). The analysis framework developed is constituted of four interdependent fields: the societal characteristics, the individual or collective behaviours, the end objectives or sustainability impacts and the inhabitant's perception of these three fields. The link between society and behaviour can be studied through sociological analyses. The link between behaviour and environmental impact can be established thanks to Life Cycle analysis and Input/Output analyses. At each level, sustainable development indicators can be defined. As an application of the framework, the citizen energy consumption has been studied and expressed in energy slaves (= 3150 MJ/Year). A Swiss citizen needs altogether 69 slaves, 20 for his private consumption of goods and services, 19 for housing, 11 for transport, 11 for food and 8 for his consumption of public goods.
 If one fifth of the inhabitants of Lausanne, wanting to live closer to nature, actually moved out of town, the region would need 10 436 more slaves for 3500 persons happily living in the countryside.Gate-to-gate process energy for 86 chemical manufacturing processes is presented. The estimation of the process energy follows design-based methodology. Results show that the gate-to-gate process energy for half of organic chemicals ranges from 0 to 4 MJ per kg, and for half of inorganic chemicals ranges from -1 to 3 MJ per kg. The main energy source in both organic and inorganic processes is steam energy followed by potential recovered energy. In organic chemicals, the fractions of heating oil and electricity use are relatively low, but these fractions are higher in the inorganic chemicals than in the organic chemicals. Furthermore, about 50% of the energy consumed in chemical processes is used for purifying the product, byproduct or recycled stream, which indicates that there are large opportunities for improving the process energy in chemical processes. The information presented in this study is very important for those in the life cycle assessment community in order for them to identify inaccurate information or information not based on actual process design. However, the range for the entire range of chemicals is very substantial and thus reflects the need of the life cycle inventory to separately evaluate the chemistry and degree of purity for chemical products. (C) 2003 Society of Chemical Industry.Cement industry accepts many kinds of wastes from other industries, and contributes to prolong the garbage dump life. It is one of the important roles of cement and concrete industry. From the aspect of circulation, however, it is questionable, because we postpone the problem of wastes. For finding a solution for this problem, it is essential to evaluate the environmental impacts of cement production. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of use of wastes and by-products to cement production. In this study, we used three methods for the evaluation: LCA (Life Cycle Assessment), exergy analysis, and TMR (Total Materials Requirement). Ecocement production is evaluated as an example in this study. Besides, a presumed cement production process, in which the wastes used in cement industry are accepted in average, is evaluated. The treatment of disposal was insufficient in conventional LCA. It considered only the environmental load accompanied by energy consumption when the used products are transferred and wasted. In contrast, "zero emission" type system boundary is used in our LCA, in which disposal of materials is assumed to be in completely harmless substances. Moreover, the environmental impacts are evaluated by exergy analysis, in which a measure of the exergy of wasted materials is calculated as potential impact, and by TMR, in which the amounts of direct and indirect materials engaged by mining and discarding of the products are estimated.Although Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used as an important method of evaluating environmental loads of a product or technology, it is difficult in conventional LCA to evaluate the effect of discarding appropriately. It is because there is a problem in setting of the system boundary of waste disposal. It is not taken into account that the waste which is reclaimed into land does influence to envi
ronment over many years by the reaction with the atmosphere or rain water. Recently, it is proposed to set the system boundary of a zero emission type that presumes the processing of harmlessness technologies of waste. In this study, we simulated the car disposal system as an example based on the system boundary of zero emission. As a result, the environmental loads for the vehicle system in this assessment are much larger than those in the conventional LCI. Besides, the environmental loads when the Pb-Sn plating steel board for the fuel tank was substituted for the Zn-Sn-Ni plating one were compared with the case by the old model. In the evaluation by old model, the effect of decrease in the environmental loads due to the heavy metal substitution was as low as 0.01 kg of CO2 in the disposal stage. On the other hand, it counted 0.38 kg in the evaluation based on virtual processes of harmlessness technology. It is concluded that the influence of a heavy metal on the environment was properly estimated by using the system boundary of a zero emission type.Public sewage treatment plants in Japan consume 6.3 billion kWh of electricity and produce 350 million tons of sludge annually, with serious impacts on the local and global environment. In this study, a Life Cycle Inventory of a sewage treatment plant for domestic wastewater was done to assess the environmental effects using data from statistics and previous studies. The system boundaries include sewage pipe construction and operation, sewage treatment plant construction and operation, material production and sludge treatment. The functional unit is defined as the treatment system of wastewater produced by one person in one year. Energy consumption and global warming are studied as the environmental parameters. The following conclusions have been drawn from the results. 1) Energy consumption and emission of Greenhouse Gases (GHGs) increase exponentially as the population density decreases. 2) If the actual population is less than the planned population, the operation efficiency of the sewage treatment plant decreases. 3) The energy consumption per person per year is 1,026 MJ, and CO2 equivalent emission factor is 89 kg. 4) Energy consumption for sewage treatment plant operation accounts for 78% of the total energy consumption. Under the assumption that 20% of the total carbon in the sludge is converted to CH4, the CH4 emitted from sludge landfill and the N2O generated by sludge incineration contribute respectively 35% and 14% to global warming. These results also show that further development of sludge recycling technology is desirable to decrease GHGs.The framework of the International Standard Organization's (ISO) 14040 series provides the practitioner with rules to deal with different aspects of analysis and assessment of the life cycle of products. The standard emphasizes the importance of accurate data to perform a valid analysis. This premise lets LCA (life cycle assessment) studies become time-consuming and expensive. But, sound decision-making by management in enterprises can be done even in cases where data are incomplete or vary, when the eco-efficiency analysis methodology is used that has been developed and applied by BASF in more than 150 projects during the last five years.Electricity generation in Australia has been almost entirely derived from combustion of its abundant fossi
l fuel resources. The consumption of these resources, and the emissions produced consequently, are known to impact upon the health of the local, regional, and global environment. To assist in planning Australia's future electricity supply, the environmental impacts from a number of likely fossil electricity production systems have been quantified using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method, and conclusions about their suitability derived. Extended systems from cradle to delivery have been defined for brown coal, black coal, and natural gas, utilizing both currently practised and advanced electricity generation technology. The export of black coal and natural gas (as LNG) for power generation overseas was also considered. For currently practised technologies, no one-fuel system has the most significant contribution to all impacts, and no single impact dominates. The most significant impacts were climate change for brown coal systems, acidification, eutrophication, and solid waste generation for black coal systems, and photochemical smog for natural gas systems. For each fuel, advanced technology systems showed reduced impacts compared with conventional technology systems, elucidating the considerable potential for environmental benefits from technological substitution. For immediate implementation, natural gas CCGT systems have distinct advantages for most impact categories.In a transition towards a sustainable petrochemical industry, its systemic structure and functions must be considered degrees-of-freedom in the search for and the specification of development options that reach beyond traditional research and development (R&D) and beyond the optimization of proven technology, proven system concepts and established process networks. Functional modelling allows technology-free specification of systems, generalization of system concepts, and recalibration of the use or value of substances in a petrochemical network. It facilitates moving up or down the ladder of system aggregation levels, which allows one to 'step out of the box' to the plant or chemical complex level, or alternatively to connect to the unit-operation level. Application to the aromatics industry serves to illustrate that thereby the abstraction from present system content and from proven technology is achieved, which allows the specification of the desired content of technological inventions that enable or rely upon changes in system structure: process system innovations. The realization of trigenerate functions through the petrochemical industry involves a paradigm-shift. Rather than considering the industry a threatening source of pollution, safety and health risks, it is an enabler of global CO2 emission reduction.his paper explores the role of Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in the evolutionary design of minerals processes. Use is made of a modified hierarchical approach to process design, taking into account the specific features of minerals technologies, and the challenges these accord to process synthesis and detailed process design. These include linked reactor-separator combinations, as well as complex recycle structures which are integrated with the selection and operation of waste management technologies. Process synthesis is posed as a design problem with multiple objectives, and consideration is given to how design de
cisions are informed by valuation choices, specifically where these relate to environmental performance. The discussion is couched in the context of decision support tools which promote the sustainability of the industry, and some guidance is offered to designers on which multi-criteria decision support tools have value as the design evolves from concept to detailed engineering stages. The approach is illustrated for a particular base metals design study. It is demonstrated that combinations of technologies, rather than the usual vendor-specified discrete technology choices, can offer enhancements in both economic and environmental performance, and are thus consistent with the push to more sustainable practices within the resources sector.The environmental profiles of five different Procter & Gamble (P&G) laundry detergents on the UK market in 2001 are analysed using Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA). Products analysed are: regular powder (RP), compact powder (CP), powder tablet (PT), compact liquid (CL) and liquid unit-dose system (LT). The analysis represents a 'cradle-to-grave' LCA for 1 wash under UK conditions for wash habits and infrastructure. Under the studs conditions, it is concluded that compact detergents (both powder & liquid) are environmentally preferable detergent formulations, mainly due to the lower use of chemicals, resulting in benefits on aquatic toxicity, eutrophication, ozone depletion and photochemical smog. Less pronounced benefits for CP and CL are also observed on energy requirements and on impact categories such as acidification, human toxicity and climate change. For most indicators, the outcome of the study is dominated (> 70% contribution) by the use stage (washing machine), which is common to all product formulations. Because of this, no significant differences are observed between scenarios using different laundry products. Hence, the present study demonstrates that for the 'cradle-to-grave' approach there is no single detergent formulation that is clearly outperforming all others on all indicators.This paper presents environmental profiles of various Procter & Gamble (P&G) laundry detergents in the UK over a time period from 1988 to 2001 using Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA). Detergent formulations studied are regular powder (RP), compact powder (CP), powder tablet (PT), dilute liquid (DL), compact liquid (CL) and liquid unit-dose (LT). The functional unit of the present study is 1 wash under representative conditions of formulation, packaging, wash habits and sewage treatment infrastructure for the respective years. The analysis shows considerable environmental improvements on most indicators within the powder and liquid category between 1988 and 2001. Key drivers behind these environmental improvements were reduced wash temperature and dosage. Reduced wash temperature was made possible through innovative technologies, improved formula design and washing machine improvements. Innovative manufacturing processes and improved formula design allowed for dosage reduction. Combining market share data for the different detergent formulations with corresponding LCA results leads to an environmental fingerprint of an "average" wash with P & G laundry detergents ("wash equivalent"). The evolution of wash equivalents over time clearly demonstrates a continuous improvement for all LCA indicators between 1988 and 2001.A life c
ycle assessment has been done to compare the potential environmental impacts of various gasoline blends that meet octane and vapor pressure specifications. The main blending components of alkylate, cracked gasoline, and reformate have different octane and vapor pressure values as well as different potential environmental impacts. Because the octane and vapor pressure values are nonlinearly related to impacts, the results of this study show that some blends are better for the environment than others. To determine blending component compositions, simulations of a reformer were done at various operating conditions. The reformate products of these simulations had a wide range of octane values and potential environmental impacts. Results of the study indicate that for lowoctane gasoline (95 Research Octane Number), lower reformer temperatures and pressures generally decrease the potential environmental impacts. However, different results are obtained for high-octane gasoline (98 RON), where increasing reformer temperatures and pressures increase the reformate octane values faster than the potential environmental impacts. The higher octane values for reformate allow blends to have less reformate, and therefore high-octane gasoline can have lower potential environmental impacts when the reformer is operated at higher temperatures and pressures. In the blends studied, reformate and cracked gasoline have the highest total impacts, of which photochemical ozone creation is the largest contributor (assuming all impact categories are equally weighted). Alkylate has a much lower total potential environmental impact but does have higher impact values for human toxicity by ingestion, aquatic toxicity, terrestrial toxicity, and acidification. Therefore, depending on environmental priorities, different gasoline blends and operating conditions should be chosen to meet octane and vapor pressure specifications.By reducing the energy and materials required to provide goods and services, nanotechnology has the potential to provide more appealing products while improving environmental performance and sustainability. Whether and how soon this potential could be realized depends on phrasing the right research and development (R&D) questions and pursuing commercialization intelligently. A sufficiently broad perspective at the outset is required to understand economic and technical feasibility, estimate life cycle environmental implications, and minimize unanticipated negative impacts. The rapid rise in federally funded nanotechnology R&D dictates that consideration of societal benefits will have a large role in setting the R&D agenda. We estimate potential selected economic and environmental impacts associated with the use of nanotechnology in the automotive industry. In particular, we project the material processing and fuel economy benefits associated with using a clay-polypropylene nanocomposite instead of steel or aluminum in light-duty vehicle body panels. Although the manufacturing cost is currently higher, a life cycle analysis shows potential benefits in reducing energy use and environment discharges by using a nanocomposite design.For energy security and environmental improvement reasons, the Chinese government is developing biomass ethanol as one of its transportation fuels. Cassava is a good feedstock to produce this ethanol because it has a high starch 
content and it is abundant in the southern provinces. A computer-based cost model has been developed to assess the life cycle economics of ethanol produced from cassava. The results are compared to gasoline as a base-line case. Although ethanol fuel is not currently competitive with conventional gasoline, these life cycle cost results indicate that, at present market prices, ethanol has the potential to be competitive if there are incentives and improved cassava yields. In addition, this renewable energy could help to alleviate poverty, improve land utilization and bring energy independence in Guangxi province in southeast China. This computer model will be an important tool for the energy policy makers to understand whether an energy alternative is cost-competitive, as well as providing a way to find appropriate measures throughout the entire life cycle that optimizes the process and removes the economic barriers. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Mt. Oyama, a volcano in Miyakejima Island, became active at the end of June 2000 and began emitting volcanic fumes with a high amount of sulfur dioxide (SO2) at the end of August 2000. Emission of volcanic fumes was still observed in August 2002. We aimed at analyzing the soil, properties in Kumagaya in relation to the effect of the volcanic fumes from Mt. Oyama. A soil survey was conducted in a deciduous secondary forest in Kumagaya, Saitama Prefecture, Japan in September 2001, and the physical and chemical properties of the soil were analyzed. The soil in the research plot consisted of volcanic ash soil. However, the properties were markedly different between the topsoil and subsoil. For example, the base saturation values in the A and Bw1 horizons were very low, 1.7 and 0.85%, respectively, while the value in the Bw2 horizon was 29%. The soils in the A and Bw1 horizons displayed a considerable anion exchange capacity (AEC) under the field conditions, and the amount of exchangeable sulfate (SO42-) accounted for 37% of the AEC in the A horizon. The AEC of the A horizon was considered to have brought about a delay in the changes in the SO42- concentration in the soil solution at the depth of 10 cm compared to the changes in the SO42- concentration in the throughfall (TF). One of the major features of the soil in the research plot was that it had already adsorbed a large amount of SO42- compared with the annual deposition load of SO42- from the atmosphere; the ratio of the adsorbed SO42- pool to the annual SO42- deposition was approximately 60 in the Bw1 horizon. Therefore, the volcanic fumes with a high amount of SO2, from Mt. Oyama were considered to have exerted a negligible effect on the soil properties in the research plot, whereas the fumes affected the properties of atmospheric deposition and upper soil solution in the research plot.In multimedia mass-balance models, the soil compartment is an important sink as well as a conduit for transfers to vegetation and shallow groundwater. Here a novel approach for constructing soil transport algorithms for multimedia fate models is developed and evaluated. The resulting algorithms account for diffusion in gas and liquid components; advection in gas, liquid, or solid phases; and multiple transformation processes. They also provide an explicit quantification of the characteristic soil penetration depth. We construct a compartment m
odel using three and four soil layers to replicate with high reliability the flux and mass distribution obtained from the exact analytical solution describing the transient dispersion, advection, and transformation of chemicals in soil layers with different properties but a fixed boundary condition at the air-soil surface. The soil compartment algorithms can be dynamically linked to other compartments (air, vegetation, groundwater, surface water) in multimedia fate models. We demonstrate and evaluate the performance of the algorithms in a model with applications to benzene, benzo[a]pyrene, MTBE, TCDD, and tritium.The Polish energy industry is facing challenges regarding energetic safety, competitiveness, improvement of domestic companies and environmental protection. Ecological guidelines concern the elimination of detrimental solutions, and effective energy management, which will form the basis for sustainable development. The Polish power industry is required to systematically increase the share of energy taken from renewable sources in the total energy sold to customers. Besides the economic issues, particular importance is assigned to environmental factors associated with the choice of energy source. That, is where life-cycle assessment (LCA) is important. The main purpose of LCA is to identify the environmental impacts of goods and services during the whole life cycle of the product or service. Therefore LCA can be applied to assess the impact on the environment of electricity generation and will allow producers to make better decisions pertaining to environmental protection. The renewable energy sources analysed in this paper include the energy from photovoltaics, wind turbines and hydroelectric power. The goal and scope of the analysis,comprise the assessment of environmental impacts of production of 1 GJ of energy from the sources mentioned above. The study will cover the construction,, operation and waste disposal at each power plant. Analysis will cover the impact categories, where the environmental influence is the most significant, i.e. resource depletion, global warmth potential, acidification and eutrophication. The LCA results will be shown on the basis of European and Australian research. This analysis will be extended with a comparison between environmental impacts of energy from renewable and conventional sources. This report will conclude with an analysis of possibilities of application of the existing research results and LCA rules in the Polish energy industry with a focus on Poland's future accession to the European Union. Definitions of LCA fundamental concepts, its methodology and application are described in the ISO 14040-14049 series of standards. These standards have already been introduced in some countries, but in Poland they are still at the stage of translation into Polish. Nevertheless some companies in Poland try to assess how their products influence-the environment and what are the possibilities of technology improvement in the existing production process reduce their environmental impact. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Environmental improvement in the building sector will be crucial for the societies ecological sustainability development. Life-cycle assessment (LCA) is one of the well-known tools used ad hoc for ecological sustainable development. In the implementation of a generic L
CA methodology applicable on constructions, the most complex abstraction level for the functional output will focus on the building operation usefulness, which regards services rather than construction properties. Furthermore, constructions or parts of it can be regarded as a streamlined application of an LCA methodology operating on the more complex service building level. A number of significant characteristics valid for a generic LCA methodology for buildings have been put forward and then checked in accordance with "today's practice", represented by five different LCA concepts utilised for buildings. On this basis, current practice but also development needs have been identified on the following themes; service coverage, life-cycle definition, time dependence (coverage), life-cycle inventory and life-cycle impact assessment. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.A new and simple concept is proposed for the systematic and quantitative assessment of the technical, economic and ecological aspects of the ecological compatibility of materials and products. This concept can serve for prospective accounting of eco-compatibility in research and development, and for comparisons of alternative technological solutions. It is based on considering six stages of the life cycle and six efficiency parameters for each stage. The ensuing matrix elements can be selected for qualitative or quantitative analysis. The elementary quantitative treatment is based on suitably defined efficiency parameters. This concept alleviates the treatment of a complete life cycle analysis and inventory computation and is particularly useful when a simple and yet concise insight into selected aspects of eco-compatibility of a material or product is required. Economical aspects are introduced regarding minimum energy and material requirements and as a cost difference parameter in comparative treatments. Examples are given to demonstrate the appropriate selection of aspects to be analysed for a particular assessment and to introduce the specific formulation of pertinent efficiency parameters. Thus, the simplicity and transparency of the method and its results is demonstrated.Ecomaterials were categorized based on their life cycle and eco-efficiency. Taking ecomaterials in their broadest sense, as "materials for the environment", there are "function materials for environmental protection" and "materials for advanced energy systems". These materials improve services such as maintaining the living environment, or rendering energy. "Materials of life-cycle design" which are ecomaterials in the strict sense, are characterized by the stages in life-cycle where the focus of reduction of the environmental burden is given to: "materials with a green environmental profile", "materials of higher material efficiency", "materials of higher recyclability", "materials of hazardous substance free". On the basis of this classification, the present state of Website home pages and commercialized ecomaterial described in the environmental report book of the enterprise was investigated. There were many "materials of higher material efficiency" and "materials of hazardous substance free", and these were respectively 39%, and 31% of the total. "Materials of green environmental profile" composed 21%, and "materials of higher recyclability" gleamed 5%. The "materials of life-cycle desig
n" are obviously well represented in the market, appealing as they do to the consumer.It is essential to evaluate the environmental impacts of materials or products properly for improving the global environment. However the typical method called Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has many problems. Especially, it is crucial that various kinds of environmental impacts cannot be integrated. We present an attempt to use the exergy concept to integrate them. We classified the different types of exergy and analyzed the impact of the life cycle of beverage containers (aluminum can, PET bottle) and generation of electricity as examples, focusing on chemical and nuclear materials.According to increase in a waste scrap, a process is noticed in which a waste scraps is consumed for sheet steel production within severe restriction of impurities concentration. In this study, evaluation of the effect on environmental load decline by LCA is applied to this new recycling technology. Target of this study is not for closed loop recycling system like aluminum can for drink but for open loop recycling system in which many industries are concerned. Authors suggest taking the interindustry-relations table for open loop recycling system. Evaluation made in this research is based on it. By setting up I/O boundary, though increase of environmental load is predicted to be high comparing to those which are assumed as non-open recycling system, still there is a sufficient effect for it. As the result of the analysis, curtailment was estimated that energy consumption and CO, emission are 16.8 GJ per ton waste scrap and 1.2 t per ton waste scrap, respectively.The Integrated Product Policy (IPP), one of the most recent initiatives of the European Commission in the field of sustainable products and services development, considers Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as natural tool to provide environmental product declarations and verified environmental labels. The need of transparency of environmental performance is getting more importance also in the field of corrosion protection technology. First results of a Life Cycle Assessment on a 'hot-dip zinc galvanising process' for generic steel products are here reported to present a set of environmental sustainability indicators of that industrial sector and to support the preparation of a document with an environmental declaration. The study has been carried out according to ISO 14040 standard and the system referred to an average process resulting from two Italian medium-size plants (about 12.000 metric tons of galvanised steel per year each). Different frameworks such as poles and pylons for energy transportation have been considered from a cradle-to-grave (eco-profile) point of view, adding up to energy and environmental results also on the basis of the steel product service life within different corrosion scenarios.A model is presented for evaluating waste management systems for their contribution to a sustainable development, including environmental, economic and social aspects. The model was tested in a case-study, where groups of long-term unemployed people were offered both education on environmental issues and practical work with the recovery and recycling of building and demolition waste as a form of vocational development. Application of the suggested model revealed the overall effects on sustainability of different methods of
 waste management. In addition, negative aspects of the systems analysed were identified, which led to discussions about possible improved practices within the waste management systems. Two of the waste management systems investigated (the recycling of steel and re-use of sanitary porcelain) showed a potential contribution to sustainable development in all of the aspects studied. Preparing bricks for re-use showed the largest potential for eco-efficiency, but had negative effects on sustainability from the social perspective of health and the working environment. The possibility of further use of the model and the remaining obstacles to such analyses are discussed. One observation is that the data collection needed to perform this kind of sustainability analysis is resource-demanding, and that it would therefore be better to identify a smaller number of key indicators. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Environmental life-cycles assessments conducted in South Africa to date have made use of published equivalency (or characterisation) factors for characterising ecotoxicity effects. These factors are calculated using environmental fate and effect models do not adequately characterise the effects of common ions associated with salinty impacts. Salinisation of South African water resources is of strategic concern, and the need for life-cycle assessments to be able to incorporate salinity effects is apparent. There are sufficiently clear cause-effect relationships between the sources and impacts of salinity, and impacts are sufficiently different in nature from existing categories to warrant a seperate salinity impact category. A conceptual method is proposed for creating a new salinity impact category for life-cycle assessment and for calculating salinity equivalency factors. The proposed method meets the international requirements for creating new impact categories and it is recommended that the method be developed further.A brief review of the recent advances in the field of ecomaterials in China is presented, giving opinions on the current activities and suggesting possible future courses of action. The past 10 years has seen the development of the concept of ecomaterials involving practical research and development of environmentally conscious materials, and the establishment of related systems including national programs and laws. It has been an important period for the development of materials science and the goal of creating a sustainable society in China. It has now become clear that ecomaterials, which exhibit high performance whilst being environmentally benign in their life cycle, are evolving from being only materials for end-of-pipe applications to include all materials being designed on the basis of life-cycle thinking. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A number of life-cycle assessment studies have compared the environmental impacts of material recycling and incineration of waste paper. They have shown that, in most cases, a recycling scenario results in lower total energy use, but greater use of fossil fuels. If waste paper and fossil fuels are complements, parts of the environmental argument for recycling is abolished. This paper estimates a cost function for the Swedish paper industry. If the cost shares are co-integrated, an error correction model will be used to model the dynamics. Short- and long-
run elasticities are then calculated to address the relationship between waste paper and the other inputs: capital, labor, purchased pulp, fiber, fossil fuels and electricity. Contrary to the life-cycle assessment studies, the results show that waste paper and fossil fuels are substitutes, and that waste paper and electricity are complements.The evaluation of uncertainty is relatively new in environmental life-cycle assessment (LCA). It provides useful information to assess the reliability of LCA-based decisions and to guide future research toward reducing uncertainty. Most uncertainty studies in LCA quantify only one type of uncertainty, i.e., uncertainty due to input data (parameter uncertainty). However, LCA outcomes can also be uncertain due to normative choices (scenario uncertainty) and the mathematical models involved (model uncertainty). The present paper outlines a new methodology that quantifies parameter, scenario, and model uncertainty simultaneously in environmental life-cycle assessment. The procedure is illustrated in a case study that compares two insulation options for a Dutch one-family dwelling. Parameter uncertainty was quantified by means of Monte Carlo simulation. Scenario and model uncertainty were quantified by resampling different decision scenarios and model formulations, respectively. Although scenario and model uncertainty were not quantified comprehensively, the results indicate that both types of uncertainty influence the case study outcomes. This stresses the importance of quantifying parameter, scenario, and model uncertainty simultaneously. The two insulation options studied were found to have significantly different impact scores for global warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, and eutrophication. The thickest insulation option has the lowest impact on global warming and eutrophication, and the highest impact on stratospheric ozone depletion.How to compare the environmental damage caused by vehicles with different fuels and drive trains? This paper describes a methodology to assess the environmental impact of vehicles, using different approaches, and evaluating their benefits and limitations. Rating systems are analysed as tools to compare the environmental impact of vehicles, allowing decision makers to dedicate their financial and non-financial policies and support measures in function of the ecological damage. The paper is based on the "Clean Vehicles" research project, commissioned by the Brussels Capital Region via the BIM-IBGE (Brussels Institute for the Conservation of the Environment) (Van Mierlo et al., 2001). The Vrije Universiteit Brussel (ETEC) and the Universite Libre de Bruxelles (CEESE) have jointly carried out the workprogramme. The most important results of this project are illustrated in this paper. First an overview of environmental, economical and technical characteristics of the different alternative fuels and drive trains is given. Afterward the basic principles to identify the environmental impact of cars are described. An outline of the considered emissions and their environmental impact leads to the definition of the calculation method, named Ecoscore. A rather simple and pragmatic approach would be stating that all alternative fuelled vehicles (LPG, CNG, EV, HEV, etc.) can be considered as 'clean'. Another basic approach is considering as 'clean' all vehicles satisfying a strin
gent emission regulation like EURO IV or EEV. Such approaches however don't tell anything about the real environmental damage of the vehicles. In the paper we describe "how should the environmental impact of vehicles be defined?", including parameters affecting the emissions of vehicles and their influence on human beings and on the environment and "how could it be defined ?", taking into account the availability of accurate and reliable data. We take into account different damages (acid rain, photochemical air pollution, global warming, noise, etc.) and their impacts on several receptors like human beings (e.g.: cancer, respiratory diseases, etc); ecosystems, or buildings. The presented methodology is based on a kind of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) in which the contribution of all emissions to a certain damage are considered (e.g. using Exposure-Response damage function). The emissions will include oil extraction, transportation refinery, electricity production, distribution, (Well-to-Wheel approach), as well as the emission due to the production, use and dismantling of the vehicle (Cradle-to-Grave approach). The different damages will be normalized to be able to make a comparison. Hence a reference value (determined by the reference vehicle chosen) will be defined as a target value (the normalized value will thus measure a kind of Distance to Target). The contribution of the different normalized damages to a single value "EcoScore" will be based on a panel weighting method. Some examples of the calculation of the Ecoscore for different alternative fuels and drive trains will be calculated as an illustration of the methodology.This paper compares individual (split) and central systems of air-conditioning in a life cycle perspective, taking into account the environmental impacts and resource consumption during resource extraction, material production, production of the air-conditioning units, their use, disposal and recycling. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is used in conducting this comparison. Central systems have a longer lifetime than individual systems, lower electricity consumption and maintenance requirements during the use phase, and a higher recycling potential during the disposal phase. However, to transfer cool air, central systems use a large quantity of water pipes or air ducts, the production of which contributes significantly to resource use. The LCA study reveals that, on the whole, the central systems generally use less resources than split systems and result in lower environmental impacts. The paper suggests a need for producers of air-conditioners to consider a change from being suppliers of air-conditioning hardware to being suppliers of cool air in order to overcome the initial cost constraints of central systems and realize their environmental and economic improvement potential to the benefit of the environment, and the industry as well as customers.High efficiency, environmental friendliness, low operation and maintenance costs, and the lowest possible impact on the environment are some of the requirements of sustainable energy production. In the selection of new power generation systems, a number of steps have to be taken into account in order to meet these requirements. Here, the first law analysis has been implemented and investigated, followed by a combination of the first and second law analyses (exergy analysis), 
and thermoeconomics. Finally, an exergetic life cycle assessment (ELCA) has been carried out for two different power cycles to show how the irreversibility of a process is coupled to environmental issues. The study involves two cycles, a two-pressure level combined cycle and a humid cycle, to demonstrate the usefulness of the three. methods mentioned above in a pre-purchase process. The main goal of this study is to point out the advantages and the difficulties related to the implementation of each and every method, and to identify the target groups that can gain knowledge and information by using these methods. Since the operators of power plants often do not have access to detailed information about component materials, characteristics, etc., of the power cycle, assumptions have to be made when comparing different cycle configurations with each other. These limited types of data and information have also been used here to create a plausible scenario of how different pre-purchase methods can differ from each other.Based on the principle of life cycle assessment, CO2 and SO2 emission of Imperial-Smelting Process in a certain zinc-lead smelter was analyzed by life cycle inventory method. According to the system expansion and substitution method, the environmental impacts of co-products were allocated among the main products of zinc, lead and sulfuric acid. The related impacts were assessed by use of Global Warming Potential (GWP) and Acidification Potential (ACP). The results show that the GWP index from 1998 to 2000 is 11. 53, 11. 65, 10. 93 tCO(2)-eq/tZn respectively, the ACP index decreases from 14. 88 kgSO(2)-eq/tZn in 1998 to 10. 99 kgSO(2)-eq/tZn in 2000. Power and electricity generation, followed by smelting and zinc distillation, are mainly responsible for GWP. Sintering individually affects ACP. Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of the ISP may come from energy conservation measures rather than from technological developments. And recycling more secondary Pb and Zn materials effectively treated by ISP, and reducing the amount of primary metal are the main ways to Put SO2 emission under control.The assessment of the current state and the prediction of the future condition of deteriorating structures are crucial processes in the management of civil infrastructure systems. Not only time-varying loads and resistances but also a series of maintenance interventions that are applied to keep structural systems safe and serviceable make the prediction process very difficult. In order to perform a realistic life-cycle analysis of deteriorating structures under different maintenance scenarios the uncertainties involved in this process have to be considered. This paper considers these uncertainties by providing a reliability-based framework and shows that the identification of the optimum maintenance scenario is a straightforward process. This is achieved by using a computer program for Life-Cycle Analysis of Deteriorating Structures (LCADS). This program can consider the effects of various types of actions on the reliability index profile of a group of deteriorating structures. Only the effect of maintenance interventions is considered in this study. However, any environmental or mechanical action affecting the reliability index profile can be considered in LCADS. Most input data are represented by random variables. In this manner, the un
certainties included in maintenance interventions, reliability index profiles, and cost evaluations are all taken into account. The present value of the expected cumulative cost associated with maintenance interventions can be evaluated for both an individual structure and a group of similar structures. Optimization and parametric analysis modules help the identification of the maintenance strategy that best balance cost and reliability index profile over a specified time horizon. Numerical examples of deteriorating bridges are presented to illustrate the capability of the proposed approach. Further development and implementation of this approach are recommended for future research.NatureWorks(TM) polylactide (PLA)(1) is a versatile polymer produced by Cargill Dow LLC. Cargill Dow is building a global platform of sustainable polymers and chemicals entirely made from renewable resources. Cargill Dow's business philosophy is explained including the role of life cycle assessment (LCA), a tool used for measuring environmental sustainability and identifying environmental performance-improvement objectives. The paper gives an overview of applications of LCA to PLA production and provides insight into how they are utilized. The first application reviews the contributions to the gross. fossil energy requirement for PLA (54 MJ/kg). In the second one PLA is compared with petrochemical-based polymers using fossil energy use, global warming and water use as the three impact indicators. The last application gives more details about the potential reductions in energy use and greenhouse gasses. Cargill Dow's 5-8 year objective is to decrease the fossil energy use from 54 MJ/kg PLA down to about 7 MJ/kg PLA. The objective for greenhouse gasses is a reduction from +1.8 down to -1.7 kg CO2 equivalents/kg PLA. (C) 2003 Cargill Dow B.V. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.A higher conversion efficiency of photovoltaic modules does not automatically imply a lower environmental impact, when the life-cycle of modules is taken into account. An environmental comparison is carried out between the production and use phase, except maintenance, of an indium-gallium-phosphide (InGaP) on multicrystalline silicon (mc-Si) tandem module, a thin-film InGaP cell module and a mc-Si module. The evaluation of the InGaP systems was made for a very limited industrial production scale. Assuming a fourfold reuse of the GaAs substrates in the production of the thin-film InGaP (half) modules, the environmental impacts of the tandem module and of the thin-film InGaP module are estimated to be respectively 50 and 80% higher than the environmental impact of the mc-Si module. The energy payback times of the tandem module, the thin-film InGaP module and the mc-Si module are estimated to be respectively 5.3, 6.3 and 3.5 years. There are several ways to improve the life-cycle environmental performance of thin-film InGaP cells, including improved materials efficiency in production and reuse of the GaAs wafer and higher energy efficiency of the metalorganic chemical vapour deposition process. Copyright (C) 2003 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.Activities within waste management systems, such as energy and material recovery, can lead to indirect environmental impacts that occur outside of waste management systems. In this paper, the effect of including indirect greenhouse-gas emissions on the choice of was
te management solutions on a national level is explored. The global warming potentials (GWPs) of future waste management solutions for Sweden are compared. These include direct and indirect GWPs resulting from recovering power, heat, biogas, materials and nutrients. Furthermore, two of the assumptions that are presumed to be crucial for determining the indirect GWPs are examined in sensitivity analyses. It was found that indirect GWPs of waste management could be large when comparing a range of waste management solutions. Including indirect GWPs may even change the ranking of the solutions. However, the estimates of the indirect GWs are sensitive to the assumptions made. Including them involves large uncertainties. Despite this, some general conclusions regarding the preferability of the respective solutions can be drawn. Including indirect environmental impacts is important when providing information to support strategic planning that involves choosing among waste management solutions. Ultimately, it is a question of improving the ability of waste management planners to design environmentally sustainable and robust waste management systems. increased knowledge of the indirect environmental impacts of waste management can contribute to providing such an improvement. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Integrated product policy (IPP) and life cycle assessment (LCA), one of the analytic tools used in IPP, focus traditionally on environmental impacts. However, in an attempt to consider other sustainability criteria and to avoid a shift from environmental health impacts to occupational health impacts one may want to include occupational health in IPP. Should and can occupational health impacts be included in LCA and IPP? Using published and unpublished occupational health data for injuries and illnesses and an economic input-output model of the United States, we provide attributional occupational health impacts measured in disability adjusted life years per dollars output for 491 industry sectors including supply chain impacts. Estimates for the "true" number of United States occupational health impacts suggest that this initial analysis underestimates the total impact 3-7-fold. A comparison suggests that United States occupational health impacts are about 10 times smaller than environmental health impacts and are, relatively speaking, important only for sectors with hazardous working environments but low environmental impacts. A consequential rather than attributional view suggests that a method to assess true consequences on long-term health impacts by product policies needs to be able to predict effects from present-day work place exposure and to account for likely changes in the labor market, including changes in unemployment rates and other substitution mechanisms.A hybrid chilled water/ice thermal storage plant for the Lucile Erwin Middle School in Loveland, Colo., has saved more than $18,000 in energy costs annually. After an evaluation of alternatives and life-cycle analysis, the local power authority offered low-interest financing for the system to the Thompson School District.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an environmental assessment tool generally applied to products but also to processes. Features of the LCA of processes are presented in this paper. This approach was used to compare two flue gas cleaning processes: 
the typical wet-type process and the new transported droplets column process. The LCA result shows that the global environmental burden is similar between the two processes, which confirms the viability of the transported droplets column. The distribution of the environmental burden, however, is different between the two processes. The weak points of the transported droplets column are the pollution transfer from air to water and a larger volume to stabilize. Its strong point: it is more efficient in capturing dust particles and toxic pollutants. This process could be improved from an environmental standpoint by adding an electrostatic filter upstream of the transported droplets column to capture the particles. The laboratory results of the transported droplets column need, however, to be confirmed at a larger scale. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.One of the most common problems arising from the application of life cycle assessment is the allocation of environmental loads in processes yielding several useful products. This is the case for cogeneration plants, and in general, for any energy plant producing more than one useful energy flow. Since traditional solutions to the problem are unsatisfactory, two new approaches for this kind of allocation are presented in this report, both of them based on thermoeconomics. In the first one, allocation is based on the exergetic cost of the products, so that the formation process of energy flows is taken into account. The second one, which has been called 'method of the exergoenvironmental costs', is a refined version of the first solution. It differs as each environmental vector is incorporated in the balance at the exact point in the plant where it comes into play. These methods are a generalisation of thermoeconomics, extending the applicability of its propositions to the allocation of environmental burdens. A comparison between the different allocation methods and a discussion pertaining to their suitability are made. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Green is a concept to express the degree of environmental burden caused by a product or service. Environmental burden is usually evaluated by 3 factors, i.e., by the bad effects on human health, by the bad effects on ecosystem and by the effects on depletion of energy and resources. This implies that it is necessary to have an integrated system with combined concept of life cycle assessment and risk assessment, but current methods/systems are far from perfect and new methods must be created by further efforts. Two kinds of criteria were used to evaluate technological/scientific values in Green & Sustainable Chemistry Awards in Japan; (1) an LCA like method to express lower burden on environment, (2) reduction of the use of highly hazardous substances.This research describes a framework and case study application that merges fuzzy set methods, pollution prevention, and sustainable production concepts. There is a direct linkage between industrial pollution prevention, sustainability, and the solution of large-scale environmental problems. This linkage stems from the inherent desire for economic production, while at the same time protecting the environment from further degradation. The methodology combines systems analysis under imprecise conditions with a life cycle assessment method that is able to accept impreci
se data. Analysis of systems under imprecise conditions is accomplished through analysis of process flow diagrams using fuzzy set techniques. Introduction of imprecision into life cycle assessment is accomplished by integration of fuzzy set approaches into a decision support system utilizing multiple criteria decision making. The framework is described and a case study application of an industrial parts cleaning system using an open top vapor degreaser is presented. Results of applying the method show that: (1) It is well suited for analysis of complex systems in which input data is sparse and expensive to collect. (2) The proposed framework includes a decision support system that is able to consider life cycle assessment concepts, and is able to reconcile differing opinions on available options for modification of production systems, thereby leading to more sustainable solutions.LCAccess is an E.P,A-sponsored Web site intended to promote the use of Life Cycle Assessment (ICA) in business decision-making by facilitating access to data sources useful in developing a life cycle inventor (LCI). Whil LCAccess does not, itself, contain data, it is a searchable global direction of potential data sources, and serves as a central source for LCA information.Based on the analysis of cross sections of railroad ties, which were in use for up to 46 years, inventory, emission factors and total yearly emissions of creosote, PAH and phenols from the Swiss railway network were determined. During the service time of a railroad tie of 20 to 30 years, roughly 5 kg creosote are emitted. PAH emissions are in the order of about 0.5 kg (sum of 16 EPA-PAH) and occur as emissions of the volatile 2- and 3-ring PAH (such as naphthalene, acenaphthylene, acenaphthene, anthracene, fluorene, and phenanthrene). Emissions of phenolic compounds are in the range of 10 g for each tie. According to our study, about 1710 t of creosote components, 139 t of EPA-PAH and 4 t of phenolic compounds are emitted by the creosoted ties of the Swiss railway network, every year. Based on these results and on a previous study on environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) of railway ties made of creosoted beech, prestressed concrete and sectional steel, the environmental effects caused by wooden ties were compared with the environmental effects of rail and road traffic. The PAH emissions from wooden ties have an enormous influence on the two effect oriented impact categories photochemical ozone creation and human toxicity. For all other impact categories, the PAH emissions are not relevant. If the road traffic (including its upstream processes) is included in the LCA, it is clearly dominating all impact categories. The use of new creosotes according to the WEI-C standard (lower benzo[a]pyrene content, less evaporation) improves the rating in the impact category photochemical ozone creation. Less than 14% of the total impact are caused by PAH emissions if creosote WEI-C is used, compared to more than 50% for creosote WEI-A. The LCA also demonstrates that the most effective measure to reduce the potential of photochemical ozone creation and human toxicity is a reduction of the road traffic.The huge amount of wastes produced by modern and developed countries involves important aspects of economical, social and technical fields and also of the environment. For this reason, different technologies
 have been proposed for trying to reduce the impact of waste management and disposal. Generally waste management system consists of different steps like selective collection, recycling and reuse operation, energy recovery from waste and landfilling. A new technology proposed for thermal waste treatment is the plasma pyrolysis vetrification (PPV). This system seems to have interesting perspective due to the possibility of thermal treatment of dangerous slag or waste producing inactivate vetrified substances that can be landfilled or used as building materials with no impact on the environment. In this study, the effect of the application of a PPV plant on an existing waste management system was evaluated with a life cycle assessment (LCA) analysis. All the activities connected to the existing system have been carefully analysed by collecting a large quantity of experimental data. Some assumptions have been made, in particular, on the PPV plant performance. LCA analysis results illustrate how the environmental benefits arising from the adoption of the new technology, concerns only few aspects of the whole system. Copyright (C) 2003 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.Coffee production has grown by nearly 200 percent since 1950; after oil it is the most important traded commodity in the world. Although it is only grown in tropical and equatorial areas (it is the primary export of many developing countries), the majority of coffee is consumed in the developed world (the United States and the European Community combined import two out of every three bags of coffee produced in the world). Considering that the coffee chain is very wide-ranging, involving many companies of different types and sizes, each environmental decision, at any point of the coffee chain, should be taken under a "life cycle thinking" perspective. It was with this intention that Life Cycle Assessment methodology was applied to analyse the environmental impacts connected to a coffee business located in Sicily. System boundaries were defined to include all life cycle steps: from coffee growing through to its distribution to consumers, consumption and disposal. The aim of the study was to identify the "hot spots" in the stages of the product's life cycle in which environmental improvements were easily achievable and to suggest alternatives to minimise the environmental impact of production phases, thereby improving processes and company performance.The main objective of the paper is to present a methodology of eco-designing of multi-layer composites using a design of conveyor belts as an example. In the present article, the methodology of designing of multilayer conveyor belts has been shown, experimental results of strength of designed belts have been presented, the eco-indicator 99 according to the SimaPro 5 methodology has been calculated and the methodology of optimisation of strength properties regarding various belts and their impact on the environment during the entire product life cycle has been presented. Changing physical and mechanical properties of layers constitute belt results in changing of rigidity and flexibility of the belt, which determine required exploitation properties of the belt. Using life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology, the pressure on the environment might be evaluated with respect to the category of human health, resources and quality of ecosystem. Defining obj
ective function (selection criteria) allows to optimise the mechanical strength of the composite being taken into account and also its impact on environment using the life cycle assessment. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.How to assess the greenness of products from the viewpoint of LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) is one of the important issues in PLCA (Products Life Cycle Analysis). In this report, we present a non-uniform assessment method for greenness assessment of products based on DEA (Data Envelopment Analysis) model after analyzing the shortcomings of the existing comprehensive assessment methods for green products. This method not only assesses the greenness of given products with regard to technical reference product constructed by means of the information of products, but also illustrates how to improve the greenness of products quantitatively by utilizing the project theory on DEA efficient frontier of DMU (Decision Making Unit). Finally we take a numerical example concerning greenness assessment of refrigerators to show how to use the established method and prove its availability.An environmental Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) procedure is constructed to compare the total emissions from different techniques for managing livestock wastes. Life Cycle Assessment is a method of holistically and systematically accounting for the environmental benefits and burdens of the production of goods and services including consequential burdens generated elsewhere. As waste emissions are very variable, the methodology is extended to include the uncertainty in the estimates in order to indicate the significance of differences between techniques. The object is to inform policy of whether options are better for the environment by quantifying potential emissions abatement, by highlighting priority environmental impacts and by revealing compromises for further investigation. This paper reports comparative LCAs for several pig waste management options. For example, various slurry application techniques, including: splash plates, band spreaders and injection. If the splash-plate system is taken as a reference, the injector system causes only 64% of the environmental acidification and 71% of the eutrophication of surface waters. The benefits must be offset against the increase in nitrate leaching of 50%. In contrast, the band spreader system offers 28% of the benefits of injection. The environmental impacts have also been expressed as a proportion of the UK national emissions. This gives each impact a weighted-value that enables direct comparisons of disparate impacts. Although band spreader systems showed an aggregated, or total, environmental impact reduction of almost 10%, the reduction is not significant when uncertainty is taken into account. Using an anaerobic digester shows few overall benefits due to the fugitive losses of methane. However, if these can be eliminated the global warming potential from waste management is reduced close to zero. (C) 2003 Silsoe Research Institute. All rights reserved. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.A novel life-cycle assessment (LCA) model has been developed for the investigation of the environmental impact of the choice of material in cable production. In the first application polyolefin based material and PVC material is used. In both cases equivalent fire behaviour is assumed and a fire model 
is established based on existing fire statistics. This study represents the second full application of the fire-LCA model. In this paper the new 'cables fire-LCA' model will be presented together with the results of this first application. Aspects such as end-of-life scenarios, fire statistics, and fire scenarios and large scale fire performance of cables are discussed together with details of the straw LCA model defined for cables and the results of four different end-of-life scenarios. Copyright (0 2003 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.In many Asian cities the public water Supply is characterised by low pressure, frequent interruptions and occasional contamination. Hence, private households have to store water and increase pressure individually to ensure an uninterrupted supply at sufficient pressure and water for drinking has to be boiled or supplied separately in bottles. In this study the present water supply system in Hanoi and a number of modification options were analysed from an environmental point of view through life cycle assessment (LCA) in order to identify the most sustainable solutions for future water supply. It was found that the boiling of water for drinking was the largest source of impacts in the present system. Impacts could be reduced significantly if the public supply network was improved and private pumping and storage could be avoided and if the water could be used directly for drinking. It was also found that impacts could be reduced if consumers used bottled water for drinking instead of boiling tap water. Finally, it was demonstrated that even if drinking water cannot be supplied directly through the public network, a reliable public water supply at high pressure is environmentally advantageous. Sensitivity analyses revealed that the conclusions of this study are likely to be applicable to other cities with similar water supply systems.Current trends in the development of the world packaging market and the place of ecological tendencies in them suggest the need to analyse the present status of studies on the ecological assessment of packaging materials and packaging. The aim of this study is to present some aspects of ecological assessment of packaging. The methods and criteria of ecological assessment of packaging, including Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) and ecological classification of packaging proposed by COBRO (Polish Packaging Research and Development Centre) in Warsaw were used. The considerations presented in the paper related to the general assumptions of ecological assessment of packaging materials and packaging point to the complexity of the problem and, at the same time, to the immediate interest and importance of studies in this field, particularly in terms of implementing a specific environmental protection policy.This paper describes the LCA environmental impacts resulting from fuel fired co-generation systems using our NETS (Numerical Eco-load Total Standard-[1]) scheme having GUI (Graphic User Interface). Following a brief introduction of the NETS evaluation method, firstly the total eco-load from commercial electricity power plants in Japan is numerically calculated in the NETS unit. We take here almost all factors into account including fuel mining, transportation and processing, plant manufacturing, assembling and its building construction, fuel consumption and maintenance during twenty durable years, plan
t dismantling and waste processing, thermal efficiency and delivery loss, etc. This evaluation greatly helps in the eco-load estimation of co-generation plants when electricity purchase is needed during the plant operation with a minimum eco-load. Next, co-generation systems are paid attention to their ecological effiectiveness. Here, we select different fuel fired co-generation plants of natural gas, heavy oil, and coal. Environmental impacts resulting from the respective plants include fossil fuel depletion and natural resources depletion, global warming due to green house gases, ozone layer depletion due to CFC type gas emission, various water and air pollution, rain acidification due to NOx and SOx, waste processing, recycling etc. Each item can be successfully calculated from the inventory database accumulated by authors. Hourly energy demands of electricity and heat (steam, hot water and cold water) are set to a typical model for eight office buildings and two hotels. The NETS method is applied to the co-generation model, resulting in the best cost-operating scheme of co-generation plants with a minimum environmental impact.The environmental impact of individuals, namely, how much they pollute and what resources they consume, is of paramount importance. However, even environmental psychologists rarely study levels of pollution or resource and energy savings. The present paper aims to ecologically validate 52 behaviors of a well-established self-report measure of ecological conduct (i.e. the General Ecological Behavior scale; Kaiser, J. Appl. Social Phychol. 28 (1998) 395, using the items' environmental consequences. Our objective is to contrast a behavior's environmental consequences with the comparable effect of a reasonable alternative. By means of applying data from available Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) literature and databases, two LCA experts were able to compare each of 52 performance pairs' overall environmental impact. None of the 30 presumably ecological behaviors of the scale turned out to be less environmentally effective than its alternative, and none of the 22 unecological behaviors turned out to be more environmentally effective than its alternative. The correspondence between a behavior's environmental consequences and its scale-incorporated, presumed, impact falls between 79% and 100%, both being statistically significant. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Organic agriculture addresses the public demand to diminish environmental pollution of agricultural production. Until now, however, only few studies tried to determine the integrated environmental impact of conventional versus organic production using life cycle assessment (LCA). The aim of this article was to review prospects and constraints of LCA as a tool to assess the integrated environmental impact of conventional and organic animal production. This aim was illustrated using results from LCAs in the literature and from a pilot study comparing conventional and organic milk production. This review shows that LCAs of different case studies currently cannot be compared directly. Such a comparison requires further international standardisation of the LCA method. A within-case-study comparison of LCAs of conventional and organic production, however, appeared suitable to gain knowledge and to track down main differences in potential environmental im
pact. Acidification potential of milk production, for example, is for 78-97% due to volatilisation of ammonia, which is not reduced necessarily by changing from conventional to organic milk production. Eutrophication potential per tonne of milk or per ha of farmland was lower for organic than for conventional milk production due to lower fertiliser application rates. Global warming potential of milk production is for 48-65% due to emission of methane. Organic milk production inherently increases methane emission and, therefore, can reduce global warming potential only by reducing emission of carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide considerably. Organic milk production reduces pesticide use, whereas it increases land use per tonne of milk. Conclusions regarding potential environmental impact of organic versus conventional milk production, however, are based largely on comparison of experimental farms. To show differences in potential environmental impact among various production systems, however, LCAs should be performed at a large number of practical farms for each production system of interest. Application of LCA on practical farms, however, requires in-depth research to understand underlying processes, and to predict, or measure, variation in emissions realised in practice. (C) 2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.The increasing demand for efficient management of used products after the end of their life cycle stems from the increasing awareness of modern society about possible threats against the environment. Used starter or lead-acid batteries contain lead up to 65%, which is also valuable after the end of their life cycle. Recycling of lead gives rise to some environmental problems associated with its collection, processing and recycling and, finally, entering the main (forward) supply chain. In this paper, the lead recovery from old batteries is examined using life cycle inventory analysis (LCIA). The reverse supply chain of used starter or lead-acid batteries is outlined and analyzed. A model for this product system is formulated, which is used to identify the lead emissions as well as all the environmental exchanges through materials balance. The proposed model formulation, which is appropriately adapted to the needs of the reverse supply chain, is used as a tool in a LCIA in order to identify those stages in the battery life cycle that give rise to the greatest environmental burdens. A similar analysis is also made for the case of disposal. The model may be used in order to assess all the associated impacts in an in-depth life cycle analysis (LCA). A preliminary comparison between the two end-of-life scenarios in terms of their environmental inputs and outputs is also attempted. Thus, based on several assumptions, an inventory analysis referring to the above chains has been conducted whose results have been summarized in an Inventory table, which produces comprehensive information about each life stage of the examined end-of-life scenarios. (C) 2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.A carbon balance assessment for containerized Larix gmelinii seedlings in the Russian Far East determined that the level of carbon emitted to the atmosphere as a result of inputs used in the seedling growing process exceeded the volume of carbon sequestered by the seedlings at a ratio of approximately 1:40 (one part sequestered carbon to 40 parts carbon em
issions). Seedlings were raised at the Nekrasovka Greenhouse Complex, Khabarovskii krai, Russian Federation, during 1998-2000. The amount of carbon sequestered by the seedling growth prior to out-planting was determined by mass spectrometry. Seedling production resulted in an initial carbon deficit, defined as the net carbon released to the atmosphere in the form of carbon dioxide (CO2). On average, each seedling raised at the greenhouse complex brought about the emission of 76.4 g of carbon dioxide from production inputs, the equivalent of 20.8 g of carbon per seedling. Averaged over three, I year production cycles, the carbon content of the seedlings was approximately 0.516 +/- 0.078 g per seedling, resulting in a 20.28 g carbon deficit per seedling (equivalent to a 74.36 g atmospheric carbon dioxide deficit). To offset this initial deficit, seedlings would need to grow to an estimated 74.68 cm in total tree height after out-planting. In boreal forests of the Russian Far East, this would require approximately 3-10 years with time varying depending on specific site conditions. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.The energy and environmental implications of applying different conservative technologies in school buildings in and Andean regions of Mendoza-Argentina have been assessed in this work using life cycle assessment. The case studied is a school building which has recently been built in Lavalle, a county in northern Mendoza's province. The obtained results show that almost all the environmental effects investigated are improved when the conservative technologies are implemented, except for the photochemical ozone formation potential. The use of wood in an uncontrolled combustion as the energetic source for brick baking has been identified as the responsible process of that unintended negative effect. (C) 2002 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.One important aim of this paper is to investigate the effect of delayed harvest of miscanthus on biomass yield and quality. Miscanthus field trials were therefore carried out at three locations in south Germany. The plants were harvested at different dates, and the yields and chemical composition of the biomass were measured. Another aim is to investigate the effects of delayed harvest of miscanthus on the net primary energy balance, total emissions of greenhouse gases, and total emissions of acidifying gases in the case of a large-scale heat generation from this biomass. Thus, life cycle assessment (LCA) for a theoretical large-scale heat generation from this specially grown and harvested miscanthus was carried out. Since no standard data set was available, two different model approaches (A and B) were applied within LCA to describe the energy consumption of biomass drying. Results of the field trials show an energy yield of 187-528 GJ ha(-1) harvest from miscanthus in December. With delayed harvest, bioenergy yields decreased by 14-15% between December and February and by a further 13% between February and March. This was accompanied by a significant decrease in water content and in the concentrations of ash, nitrogen, chloride and sulphur in the biomass. The decline in energy yield, however, cannot be traded off by a reduced total primary energy consumption due to a reduced need for drying. The amount of total CO2 equivalent emissions of theoretical heat generation from miscan
thus varies between 10.3 and 36.1 kg CO2 equivalents GJ(-1) depending on the harvest time, production site and drying process model used. A clear effect of delayed harvest on total CO2 equivalent emissions per GJ was not found. The amount of total SO2 equivalent emissions varied between 44 and 213 g GJ(-1). Here, results of both drying models show a clear decrease of SO, equivalents with delayed harvest. In addition, energy generation from miscanthus emits less CO2 and SO2 equivalents than conventional heat generation from light heating oil. It can be concluded that an early harvest of miscanthus maximises energy yield and finite primary energy savings per hectare. It may also maximise CO2 equivalent savings per energy yield when energy consumption of the drying processes can be kept low. To gain certainty on this point, more robust data bases for the LCA are needed. On the other hand, late harvest reduced total SO, equivalent emissions of an energetic use of miscanthus and it also recommended for economic reasons. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Building integrated photovoltaics (BIPV) perform traditional architectural functions of walls and roofs while also generating electricity. The displacement of utility generated electricity and conventional building materials can conserve fossil fuels and have environmental benefits. A life cycle inventory model is presented that characterizes the energy and environmental performance of BIPV systems relative to the conventional grid and displaced building materials. The model is applied to an amorphous silicon PV roofing shingle in different regions across the US. The electricity production efficiency (electricity output/total primary energy input excluding insolation) for a reference BIPV system (2kW(p) PV shingle system with a 6% conversion efficiency and 20 year life) ranged from 3.6 in Portland OR to 5.9 in Phoenix, AZ indicating a significant return on energy investment. The reference system had the greatest air pollution prevention benefits in cities with conventional electricity generation mixes dominated by coal and natural gas, not necessarily in cities where the insolation and displaced conventional electricity were greatest. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.A 100 MW very large-scale photovoltaic power generation (VLS-PV) system is designed assuming that it will be installed in the Gobi desert, which is one of the major deserts in the world. Array arrangement, array support, foundation, wiring, and so on are designed in detail. Then energy payback time (EPT), life-cycle CO2 emission rate and generation cost of the system are estimated based on the methodology of life-cycle analysis. As a result of the estimation, 1.7 year of EPT and 12 g C/kWh of CO2 emission rate are obtained. These show that VLS-PV in the Gobi desert would be very promising for the global energy and environmental issues. The generation cost is calculated at 8.6cent/kWh assuming that PV module price is one US $/W and system lifetime is 30 years. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.Strategic environmental assessment (SEA) of sewage sludge management in a Danish municipality (Aalborg), with 160,000 inhabitants using alternative methods for aggregation of environmental impacts was performed. The purpose is to demonstrate the use of SEA in relation to sludge management and
 to improve SEA methodology. Six different scenarios for management of sewage sludge within the Aalborg municipality involving thermal treatment, composting and landfilling of sludge were evaluated. Environmental impact categories considered were global warming, non-renewable resources (nutrients and fossil fuels) and land use. Impact categories human health, ecotoxicity and soil quality were excluded as methodology for their assessment is not yet fully developed. Thermal sludge treatment with energy utilisation was shown to be a promising option for sewage sludge management in Aalborg. Sensitivity of the relative environmental impacts with respect to calculation methodology and input parameter values were evaluated to identify important parameters and calculation methods. The analysis showed that aggregation procedures, sludge biogas potential and sludge production were very important whereas sludge transport was not.The scope of the presented project was to illuminate and describe the potential environmental impacts which are caused by the production and application of a coating material using epoxidised derivatives. Therefore an appropriate comparative eco-balance in collaboration with the company BIOMEL GmbH located in Dessau (Germany) shall be conducted. Problem definition, approach and results will be given.The life cycle inventory (LCI) data of the electric power generation plays a vital role on LCIs of the industrial products. However there are no formal life cycle assessment (LCA) studies in Indonesia so far due to limited number of LCA expertise and lack of sufficient databases relevant to domestic conditions. Therefore, the aim of this study is, firstly to introduce life cycle assessment (LCA) method for Indonesian electric power generation systems, and, secondly to establish LCI data for electricity grid mix of Indonesia compared with three selected countries, Japan, Thailand and China. Finally, to analyze and to investigate the environmental burdens for these four selected countries from a life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) point of view using the proposed LCA-NETS (Numerical Eco-load Total Standard) method. As the results, the LCA evaluations are discussed for further ecological improvement.There is a recognition that one of the best ways to reduce waste and pollution towards zero is to prevent them from occurring in the first place. This can be done by focusing at the early aspect of designing products and processes. Ecological loss function which is adapted from Taguchi's quality loss function is developed in this paper to aid in the environmental assessment and design of techniques. Ecological loss function relates the expected monetary losses and the environmental quality (emission) attributes of a system. Based on the calculated expected losses, techniques are ranked to determine the best available one. The proposed function is applied in three fictitious techniques in primary aluminum industry and could provide suggestions which of the techniques that have to be benchmarked for continuous environmental performance improvement. Additionally, this paper reported which emitted substances have to be addressed first during the design improvement phase in the primary aluminum industry.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is becoming increasingly more important as an assessment tool within the design of modern products. LCA may be us
ed to minimize the environmental impact of a design during the entire life cycle of a product, and to highlight weak points and areas requiring special attention and improvement. However, obtaining the life cycle inventories (LCI) required for LCA is often too expensive, as data is difficult to obtain and the amount of data required is very considerable. This paper introduces a framework for the integration of data from a product model and an LCI data base. Within the approach taken, efficient access to the LCI-relevant data is realized by utilizing feature technology as a means to relate with a sound semantics framework and a geometrical model linked to individual product properties.The objective of this research is to compare the greenhouse gas emissions between recycling of MSW recyclable value wastes and landfilling in Thailand. Methane emmissions from the organic fraction of waste in landfill contribute to global warming whereas for recycling, the global warming potential comes from the energy consumption of the recycling process. The whole life cycle of the two scenarios is considered, including transportation. The recycling option reduces the methane emissions from landfill due to diversion of waste. The study shows that this reduction more than offsets the increase due to energy consumption in the recycling process. Apart from the reduction in global warming potential, recycling also contributes to resource conservation. Thailand has high potential for recycling since a large proportion of the waste currently going to the landfill is actually recyclable. Two case studies of ecodesign are also considered to highlight the increase in recyclability and thus the benefits thereof.In this paper, a framework of evaluation of the product life cycle in the closed loop manufacturing is discussed The framework provides a procedure to organize a system of environmental indicators and to carry out the evaluation in the process of designing product life cycles in the closed loop manufacturing. For constructing the system of indicators, a structured set of basic indicators is proposed It consists of "goal" indicators and "measure" indicators. The measure indicators are related to the life cycle options, which should be selected according to the product life cycle strategy represented by the goal indicators. The relationship between two sets of indicators can be analyzed by means of life cycle simulation combined with life cycle assessment. The paper also presents an illustrative example of constructing the system of indicators and the analysis of product life cycle of mobile phones by means of the life cycle simulation. This example indicates complex relations between the goal indicators and the measure indicators and, therefore, implies that the life cycle simulation is quite useful for supporting the life cycle design.An industrial activity like manufacturing products inevitably results in some load on the environment such as the fossil fuel depletion, global warming, air pollution and etc. Owing to the new sensitivity arising towards the environment, reuse and recycle for products have to be regarded as important. However, no numerical environmental impact analyses of reuse and recycle have been expressed. As a tool that estimates numerical environmental impacts caused by different environmental problems through the entire life cycle (cradle 
to grave) of industrial products, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been greatly paid attention. In this paper, we have evaluated environmental impacts of reuse for vending machine and recycling for PET bottle by the aid of the LCA-NETS (Numerical Eco-load Total Standard) software that we have newly proposed as a LCA scheme to analyze quantitatively environmental loads of any industrial products. As the result, it is clarified that LCA-NETS software is found to be a powerful tool to analyse the quantitative LCA environmental loads for various industrial products and that reuse and recycling of products are greatly needed for ECP (environmentally conscious products).Trucks exhaust 95% of CO2 in traveling. Therefore improvement of fuel efficiency is most effective to reduce environmental loads and lightening vehicle bodies is the best way for it So we categorized trucks: small, midsize, and large trucks, and calculated efficiency of lightening each truck by life cycle assessment (LCA). We use carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP) for weight saving instead of steal. Since making CFRP needs much larger energy than steal, following the three ways are effective in lightening trucks by CFRP: To reduce basic unit of producing CFRP To lengthen total mileage. To increase load capacity by the amount of weight saving.The choice of end of life option for damaged products affects the products' environmental impact. In this study recycling and refurbishing of household appliances are ecologically and economically compared. The comparisons were conducted by using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Activity Base Costing (ABC), which both are reliable methods. The results from the analyses show that the refurbishment scenario is preferable from both economic and ecological standpoint. Refurbishment could also be used to a greater extent when the aim is to save nature or to decrease the economic losses that accrue from product defects. Having products refurbished in a central facility gives the manufacturer the opportunity to enhance knowledge about their products' performance throughout its entire life cycle.The environmental aspects of electrical and electronic equipments (EEEs) have emerged as a matter of primary concern and, thus, eco-design is being conducted actively. In order to identify the significant environmental aspects of a product system, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been used widely. However, a full scale LCA study is usually very detailed, expensive and time-consuming. In this study the development of a simplified LCA (SLCA) that can be applied to EEEs was attempted to efficiently identify their significant environmental aspects for ecodesign.This paper develops two types of simplified life cycle assessment method for LCA evaluation during innovative design stage. The fast method is qualitative LCA using matrix approach This method uses a pre-defined scoring list combine with streamlined LCA and matrix approach, to provide innovative design engineers an environmental impacts evaluating tool when they publish their idea of innovative product designs Another method is pattern-based qualitative LCA approach It uses the results of previous product LCA to categorize six different environmental impact maps based on different product characteristics Furthermore, weighting method is used to obtain qualitative LCA result of innovative products by comb
ination of associated environmental impact maps Innovative design engineers can use these results to evaluate their new ideas of innovative products during innovative design stage.In a competitive and globalized business environment, the need for the green products becomes stronger. To meet these trends, the environmental assessment besides delivery, cost and quality of products should be considered as an important factor in new product development phase. In this paper, a knowledge-based approximate life cycle assessment system (KALCAS) for the collaborative design environment is developed to assess the environmental impacts in context of product concept development. It aims at improving the environmental efficiency of the product using artificial neural networks consisting of high-level product attributes and LCA results. The overall framework of the collaborative environment including KALCAS is proposed The architecture for the collaborative design environment is used to the CO(TM) environment to allow users on a wide variety of platforms to access the product data and other related information. It enables us to trade-off the evaluation results between the objectives of design alternatives including environmental impacts in the collaborative design environment.The environmental impact of a Japanese telephone directory was studied using the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method Most telephone directories are published, delivered and collected by the telephone company; this makes their life cycle unlike that of other magazines. We analyzed several environmental burdens, such as carbon dioxide (CO2) emission, and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emission, and evaluated several environmental effects. Most of the environmental burdens were caused during the paper production process.In order to effectively integrate the environmental aspects into the product design and development processes, it is crucial to identify the environmental aspects related to a product system within a relatively short period of time by using appropriate assessment tools. In this study, a simplified LCA (SLCA) and the environmentally responsible product assessment matrix (ERPA) methods were evaluated and the usefulness as a tool for identifying the. environmental aspects of products in eco-design was examined. The case studies of the cellular phone and vacuum cleaner systems showed that the SLCA and the ERPA methods provided different information but they complement each other to some extent. While the SLCA generates more information on the inherent environmental characteristics of a product system so that it may be useful for new design/eco-innovation, the ERPA gives more information on the potentials for improvement in the product so that it can be effectively used in eco-redesign.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been proposed as a method of grasping the environmental load, occurring especially in product manufacturing, in order to design and manufacture products with better environmental performance. LCA is a technique. for computing the environmental load of a product over the total product life cycle by performing inventory analysis of each life cycle process and summing up the results. However since LCA computes environmental load based on a static database, it is difficult to consider dynamic changes of a life cycle in its calculation. In this research, we propose the new en
vironmental load evaluation system, which can consider dynamic changes of each life cycle process by connecting external calculating modules to the LCA system.To study the most appropriate design for mobile telecommunications networks, we conducted a life cycle assessment of second-generation cellular phone networks (2G networks) and Personal Handyphone System networks (PHS networks) in Japan. Our results show that, for the same number of subscribers, without considering differences in communication quality, 2G networks, which use a smaller number of higher power base stations (BSs), produce less CO2 emission than PHS networks, which use a larger number of lower power BSs. An effective way of reducing network CO2 emission would be to design BSs that consume less power, thus reducing their emission at the use stage. It would also be effective to design easily re-useable handsets composed of fewer components and materials to reduce their emission at the production stage.Innovative technologies. are required to offset increasing consumption and declining stocks of non-renewable resources. Misleading estimates of pollution prevention, performance, and cost of promising new environmentally conscious technologies might result when process design and LCA methods do not account data variability and uncertainty. This research attempts to develop novel assessment methodology for evaluation of risks and potential pay-offs of new technologies that avoid pollutant production; and demonstrate the methodology via case study of gasification technology by simultaneous characterizing data variability and uncertainty. Thus, assessments of advanced process technologies that are in early developmental stages should be based on proper understanding and representation of uncertainties.Now the electronics industry is due to substitute lead-free solder for conventional solder. Substitution of lead-bearing solders can bring out reduction of the toxicity of solders caused by lead, but according to Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), it may cause increase of energy consumption in the soldering process. We investigated the energy consumption of the soldering process at production sites of various companies and compared the values of the energy consumption of mounting process using conventional solder with that using lead-free solder. In results, the increase rate of the energy consumption caused by the substitution of lead-free solder is lower than that calculated by LCA. Therefore the energy consumption of soldering process can hold the status quo.This paper compares and contrasts two methods for calculating life-cycle human and aquatic toxicity impacts. A hazard value (HV) approach and a toxicity potential (TP) approach are used to calculate toxic impacts of three wave solder alloys: tin/lead (SnPb), tin/copper (SnCu), and tin/silver/copper (SAC). TPs are based on a more sophisticated model than the HV method; however, the TP method is less comprehensive in the number of potentially toxic chemicals it includes. Both methods resulted in similar overall conclusions regarding the relative difference in impacts for each solder alternative; however, the inventory data that drive the impact results differ for the two impact assessment methods.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a key technique to achieve green design. But it isn't applied widely because of its defects. In order to enh
ance the operability of LCA in green design, A LCA tool, named Green Product Life Cycle Design (GPLCD) is described in this paper. The paper is divided into four sections: first, based on the analysis of the existing LCA method and the product design activities, the functional model of the LCA tool is built with IDEF0 methods. And then through analyzing the product and its life cycle activities, product's life cycle model is proposed and the functional unit class and process class are presented with Object oriented design. Third, aimed to the problems of the data management of product's life cycle, product configuration management is integrated into GPLCD. Finally, a case on choosing material of impeller is given to testify how to use the LCA tool to support green design.We have undertaken an evaluation of the environmental impact of fixed-line telephone networks in Japan. We chose the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method for this evaluation because it can assess the environmental burden quantitatively. Prior to the evaluation, we developed a telecommunication network model including end-user terminals, access facilities, end-offices, repeater stations and transmission facilities. The model for these facilities represents typical networks in the Tokyo metropolitan area. We have evaluated the environmental burden imposed by more than 50 pieces of equipment using life cycle inventory analysis. We found that throughout the entire life cycle, the CO, emissions emanating from fixed-line telephone networks during the use stage accounted for about 77% of the total. The emissions from customers' equipment were particularly heavy. We also estimated the potential recovery available by recycling equipment and facilities and the effect was a reduction of about 6% in CO2 emissions.Telecommunication providers and telecommunication manufacturers arc getting ready to implement the third generation (3G) mobile telecommunication systems known as UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System) in Europe. Next to the technical problems involved, no statement regarding the sustainability of the UMTS can yet he made. In a joint effort Motorola, Swisscom, Deutsche Telekom and ESU-services have carried out an evaluation of the environmental sustainability of the UMTS mobile communication system in Switzerland by means of a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). A baseline environmental impact profile across the full life cycle of the UMTS mobile communication system and its predecessor, the GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication) is presented. The baseline assessment was a necessary first step to evaluate the environmental impacts of the mobile communication systems use and growth and thus permitting the evaluation of its environmental sustainability. The analysis showed that the manufacturing of electronic components, the life time of the appliances and energy consumption are key parameters influencing the environmental profile most. From this baseline, necessary environmental improvement strategies on the technical level, such as Design for Environment for products (e.g. cellular phone and base stations) and LCA improvement assessments (e.g. combined devices) are developed so as to show ways towards sustainable mobile communication.Information and communication technologies (ICTs) are rapidly developing and will shape our future society. In understanding the shape o
f the future information era, it is also important to identify the environmental aspects of ICTs. However, Life Cycle Assessment (L CA), a systematic evaluation tool for products and services, often lacks ability to capture services inputs and capitals, which is crucial in ICTs. In this study we employed input-output analysis besides traditional process LCA to overcome this problem and to identify environmental impacts of Internet infrastructure within the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL). This study aims at detailing the Internet infrastructure and evaluates the environmental impact of its various components. The methodology developed starts with a first screening performed with an Input-Output LCA software (MIET). This has been done starting from the detailed expenditures allocated to the Internet infrastructure within the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Switzerland Data from other LCA studies and databases were then included using an hybrid approach. It permits to better evaluate environmental impacts of complex systems. In particular it enables to assess overhead services and infrastructure, which have received less attention in traditional LCAs. The results of the first screening show that the electricity and the manufacturing of personal computers are dominating. But other contributions like maintenance, paper, management and computational services in case of computer breakdown have significant impacts, showing that an environmental friendly computer is also a reliable one. The inclusion of process data on electricity consumption, computer manufacturing, computational services and particular characteristics of the Institute's energy consumption were then combined in a process technology matrix. The results change significantly showing that the first screening of the methodology is use it to point out what should be more detailed but gives results that should be interpret with grate care.LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) is a quantitative method to evaluate the environmental impacts involved with a certain product over its whole life cycle by calculating the inputs and outputs of the system. However, it has some limitations unavoidable hypothesis, incomplete data, weak adaptability and high cost etc. Consequently, several simple LCA methods came into being. In order to make the LCA method more practical, a new evaluation method named "the most of the most" is introduced in this paper, and the feasibility of it is demonstrated through case studies comparing with the traditional method.Nowadays, the urban utilities management is a real chaos. A systemic approach, defined by the researchers of the CREM as urbistics, can give to the public managers the tools for the sustainable city of tomorrow. Using microcomputers and the cabled TV network, the CREM manages a laboratory town at real scale. Every hour, various flows, like electricity, natural gas, district heating or drinking water are measured over 30 sites and visualized by a urban area network. This enable the urban utilities to better understand the consumption pattern and thus to improve the resources management. Nevertheless, the question was asked whether the environmental benefits of the management improvement overcome the impact of the necessary infrastructure of the monitoring. A life cycle environmental impact was performed to answer this question. In order to 
perform a first evaluation and to have the possibility to take into account the services, an Input-Output approach to Life Cycle Assessment has been used. The first task was to inventory the necessary infrastructure and to determine the effects of the monitoring system. The direct impacts are negative and include the necessary infrastructure: computers, electricity consumption, research funding, etc... The indirect impacts are mostly positive: resource management to enhance the efficiency of the network, avoided building of a water tank possibility to dialog with the customers, etc... The ecoindicator 99 coefficients were used to evaluate the environmental impact. All these coefficients were evaluated for both the necessary infrastructure and the avoided impacts of the monitoring. The results show that the avoided impacts are 3 to 25 times higher than the real impacts. More data are needed to decrease the uncertainty linked to the estimation made. More work is needed to overcome the difficulties encountered when evaluating the indirect effects and allocating them to the use of the monitoring system. The monitoring system set by the CREM together with the city of Martigny is very promising and could help cities on their way to sustainable development. In particular, it could be very useful for the development of new urban area.It's a dogma that a long product lifetime is always an environmental benefit. But this is not always so in the case of electronics. The electronics sector contains active products, i.e. they consume electricity during use. A lower energy consumption in a new product may therefore "pay" for the total "fixed burden" of producing and disposing both the new and old products. The dynamics of this mechanism has been investigated by an LCA screening of four product groups: televisions, PC's, mobile phones and frequency converters. Two product generations into the future were included in terms of the prevailing expectations for technological innovation. The environmental effects of new technology on these four product groups were assessed to determine the best environmental choice between the following two scenarios: Buy a new product and dispose of the old one, OR Prolong the life of the product through repair. This paper will discuss methods and results, including the best purchase strategy or the best repair strategy.Process-based, generic, parametric modules are used to manage wafer fabrication life-cycle inventory data in order to stream-line life cycle analysis activities, accommodate rapidly changing technologies, and accurately reflect the highly significant role that warfer fabrication processes have in the life cycle of an integrated circuit.This paper presents the findings of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) of two different book options - electronic and print. This study compared the life-cycle burdens and impacts of a college student reading 40 scholarly textbooks and the equivalent amount of digitized information (53.6-MB) using a dedicated e-book reading device. Total primary energy, material and water requirements, air and water pollutant emissions, and solid wastes for each system were evaluated By comparing these two book options, this study provides industry, consumers, and policy makers with valuable information necessary to make environmentally informed decisions regarding e-book technologies.There is an in
creasing pressure from the economic regulator in England and Wales for water companies to ensure that their capital maintenance decisions reflect an understanding of the long-term impact on their operational costs and risks. This implies that decisions must not only reflect the costs borne now but the likely costs in the future, and how these might be optimised. It is noteworthy that within the construction and transport industries, asset management decisions which have been driven in this direction utilise a whole life costing (WLC) methodology. This paper addresses the implications of transferring the concept of WLC to-service-based assets such as water systems. A WLC approach to distribution network management aims to achieve the lowest network provision and operating cost when all costs are considered to achieve standards enforced by regulation. Cognisance is to be taken of all relevant costs-direct and indirect, private and societal-in order to balance the needs of the service supplier,the customer, society and the environment in a sustainable manner. A WLC analysis thus attempts to develop a cost profile over the life of the asset. Accounting for the costs over this period is achieved through a combination of activity based costing (ABC) and a life cycle assessment (LCA) used to identify potential social and, environmental costs. This process means that each of these identified costs must be linked to some physical parameter that itself varies over-time due to changing demands on the system, the different operation I strategies available to the operator and natural deterioration of the fabric of the system. The links established between the cost and activities of the operator provide the basis for the development of a WLC decision tool (WiLCO) for application to water distribution network management.A map depicting the major elements, interactions, and life cycle analysis issues of a typical water distribution system is presented as a network labyrinth. From this, focus is placed on the influence of leaks on energy and water consumption as well as the dissipation of hydraulic transients. Straightforward analytical expressions-are derived in order to relate the energy efficiency of a leaky pipe to leak location and orifice properties. The ability of leaks to relieve pressure during hydraulic transients is briefly discussed CD with several challenges and issues surrounding the quantification of this attenuation effect being put forward. Considered from the broader perspective of the network labyrinth, a better understanding of leak related effects has implications for pipe rehabilitation models, system economics and environmental sustainability.Water utility companies in the UK maintain asset databases as a fundamental requirement for system management and understanding. In addition water companies maintain customer service records providing information relating to bursts leakage and water quality complaints. Typically these recorded data sets have been utilised independently as the rigorous integration of such information sources was not feasible due primarily to the method of recording data. With advances in data manipulation, and analysis systems, in particular the integration of geographical information systems (GIS), it is now possible to explore relationships between data. This paper presents details of the techniques that may b
e employed to rigorously filter data and establish data base associations. Using such associations it is possible to perform advanced analysis to examine relationships between the data. These associations can be used to enhance cost based and performance models associated with sustainability and life cycle analysis. Derivation of these types of relationship and the confidence in the methodologies used in defining them are essential to the water industry, in particular for the development of efficient and effective operation and maintenance strategies. Examples of these enhanced relationships are presented and the implications of the resulting trends discussed.The employment of renewable energy sources can represent a useful way to reduce air emissions released by conventional ones. In this paper we describe the results of a Life Cycle Analysis performed upon one of the most world-wide diffused renewable technologies: the solar thermal collectors for warm sanitary water. Two domestic solar plants have been investigated: mono-familiar plant with a passive flat collector and a large solar plant with forced fluid circulation. The first step has been the evaluation of direct and indirect emissions related to the production and use of plants. The main emissions have been categorised in three of the most important indicators (Global Warming Potential, Acidification Potential and Photochemical Ozone Creation Potential) and successively we have estimated the emission saving. Considering that a solar plant works with an auxiliary heater, the pollutants that would be produced by the conventional part of the plant without the employment of collectors are the "emission saving". These avoided atmospheric releases depend on the typology of the used conventional system. The case studies of electric and gas heaters have been investigated. The final aim is to perform a global balance between the air emissions related to the production and use of the solar plants and the emissions saved during their useful-life. These results are synthesised by various indicators that contain useful information to evaluate the environmental efficiency of the studied renewable technology.Green chemistry and engineering is the design of chemical manufacturing systems to minimize their adverse affects on the environment. Thus, a primary goal of green chemistry and engineering is to reduce the environmental impact of chemical processes and chemical manufacturing while simultaneously enhancing the overall process performance. Although it is beneficial to simply reduce the use of organic solvents in chemical processes, green chemistry and engineering goes further, in that it evaluates the entire manufacturing operation to identify techniques that can be applied to minimize the overall process hazard, while maintaining economic practicality. Evaluation of the environmental impacts of the manufacturing process requires a systems approach and appropriate metrics that permit quantitative assessment of environmental hazards. Thus, this chapter begins with a discussion of the drivers for green engineering and the metrics through which processes can be evaluated. Then, the hydroformylation process is used as a case study to illustrate the way in which green chemistry principles can be applied to real processes. Two elements, are specifically highlighted: (a) the use of catalysts to faci
litate active and selective chemistry and the immobilization of said catalysts within the reactor system, and (b) the development of processes based on benign reaction solvents, and the benefits that can accrue from simplified separations operations.Widespread observations of organic pollutant compounds in vegetation, soil, animals, and human tissue have motivated research on more accurate characterizations of chemical transport over regional, continental, and global scales. Efforts to assess human and ecosystem exposure to contaminants from multiple environmental media have been evolving over the last several decades. In this review, we summarize the development and evolution of the multimedia mass-balance approach to pollutant fate and exposure evaluation and illustrate some of the calculations used in multimedia assessments. The concepts that form the foundation of Mackay-type mass-balance compartment models are described, and the ongoing efforts to use multimedia models to quantify human exposures are discussed. A series of case studies of varying complexity are used to illustrate capabilities and limitations of selected multimedia approaches. We look to the future and consider current challenges and opportunities in the field of multimedia contaminant fate and exposure modeling.LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) is a new tool for environmental management. The most important property of the LCA is the "cradle-to-grave" perspective as the analysis focuses on a single product - from raw materials extraction to the final disposal of wastes. LCA associates the energy and materials that go into the studied system with the wastes and pollution it generates. System represents a set of single operations related to a product. LCA is a tool that many producers in the world could use in decision-making processes and which can lead to a reduction in the amount of waste produced or to technology changes. Besides obvious environmental advantages, the reduction of negative environmental impact improves a producer's image and competitiveness on the world market. In the mining industry environmental aspects are very important, as all mining and metallurgical activities influence the environment to a substantial extent.The environmental performance of willow biomass crop production systems in New York (NY) is analyzed using life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. The base-case, which represents current practices in NY, produces 55 units of biomass energy per unit of fossil energy consumed over the biomass crop's 23-year lifetime. Inorganic nitrogen fertilizer inputs have a strong influence on overall system performance, accounting for 37% of the non-renewable fossil energy input into the system. Net energy ratio varies from 58 to below 40 as a function of fertilizer application rate, but application rate also has implications on the system nutrient balance. Substituting inorganic N fertilizer with sewage sludge biosolids increases the net energy ratio of the willow biomass crop production system by more than 40%. While CO2 emitted in combusting dedicated biomass is balanced by CO2 adsorbed in the growing biomass, production processes contribute to the system's net global warming potential. Taking into account direct and indirect fuel use, N2O emissions from applied fertilizer and leaf litter, and carbon sequestration in below ground biomass and soil carbon, 
the net greenhouse gas emissions total 0.68 g CO2 eq. MJ(biomass produced)(-1). Site specific parameters such as soil carbon sequestration could easily offset these emissions resulting in a net reduction of greenhouse gases. Assuming reasonable biomass transportation distance and energy conversion efficiencies, this study implies that generating electricity from willow biomass crops could produce 11 units of electricity per unit of fossil energy consumed. Results from the LCA support the assertion that willow biomass crops are sustainable from an energy balance perspective and contribute additional environmental benefits. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Bioenergy has an important role in the implementation of the Kyoto agreement in Finland. The main sources of wood residues for energy production are logging areas and sawmills. The use of forest chips can be of great significance in reducing carbon dioxide emissions by replacing fossil fuels. Increasing the use of forest chips has environmental benefits, but it also includes possible environmental disadvantages. Therefore, system research is needed to assess the forest chip utilisation prospects for their environmental quality to secure sustainable forest management. Life-cycle methodology was developed and applied to assess environmental burdens and impacts of the logging and sawmill residues throughout the whole fuel chain from the forest to energy production. According to the study, the energy efficiencies of the forest chip systems are quite high. Net CO2 emissions of the systems are low owing to the low input of external primary energy required to operate the systems. Although wood energy is renewable, it has many similarities with fossil fuels, e.g. as the emissions of the conversion phase are significant. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.It is commonly assumed that solar hot water systems save energy and reduce greenhouse emissions relative to conventional fossil fuel-powered systems. Very rarely has the life-cycle greenhouse emissions (including the embodied greenhouse emissions of manufacture) of solar hot water systems been analysed. The extent to which solar hot water systems can reduce emissions compared with conventional systems can be shown through a comparative life-cycle greenhouse emissions analysis. This method determined the time it takes for these net greenhouse emissions savings to occur, or the 'emissions payback period'. This paper presents the results of a life-cycle greenhouse emissions analysis of solar hot water systems in comparison with conventional hot water systems for a southern (Melbourne) and a northern (Brisbane) Australian city. The life-cycle costs of these hot water systems were also analysed to determine the financial payback period. The fuel source and solar fraction determined the emissions resulting from the energy used for operating hot water systems. The solar systems provide net emissions savings compared with the conventional systems after 2.5-5 years in Melbourne and after 2.5 years in Brisbane, depending on the auxiliary fuel. The life-cycle cost analysis also revealed that the financial payback period for solar hot water systems is more than 10 years in Melbourne and around 10 years for an electric-boosted system in Brisbane. This suggests the need for greater subsidies to increase market take-up for sola
r systems, especially where electricity is the only available fuel.Simplified Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) methodologies are very useful tools in the early design stages for estimating the environmental impacts of product alternatives and for predicting environmental costs or burdens for manufacturers. A new methodology, presented in this paper, is based on the analysis of full LCA case studies. It calculates the product's Environmental Performance Indicator by using two sets of energy-based and material-based Impact Drivers. Further simplification can be achieved by grouping the products according to their material/energy ratio and by using simple regression equations. A wide range of case studies is used to compare the simplified results with the full LCA results.We will discuss a radically new approach to production planning. Building on the success of supply chain management practices and life cycle analysis, we propose to perform an overall optimisation of production requirements. In particular, we will study the manufacturing needs for survival, omitting "luxury" production such as home electronics and entertainment. The approach will reduce the vulnerability of the society, thus greatly reducing the potential impact of natural disasters or terrorist actions. As an example, we use known data on available resources on the moon, mapping these against a first level breakdown of human survival requirements. The resulting process flowchart is presented, featuring essential processes such as life support, mining/processing, manufacture and power/transport. A conclusion is that manufacturing capacity needed for sustained human life on the moon can be built on mainly quite standard technology. Further, the experiences gained from a full-scale "survival production" exercise will not only give valuable insights in the needs for large scale human space exploration, but will also be highly applicable in many terrestrial applications, including supply chain optimisation and disaster relief.The technology acceleration of the ITRS Roadmap has many implications on both the semiconductor supplier community and the manufacturers. This work examines the impact of technology acceleration on the manufacturers and the resultant supplier impact. This work begins with an overview of the forces in the industry that are driving the acceleration. Providing an analysis of the drive behind the acceleration, the impact on total production is developed. This acceleration results in more functionality per unit area in a shorter time frame. Based on a constant growth of devices, the technology acceleration reduces the requirements for manufacturing capacity increases. This fact has a direct impact on the supplier community. An additional factor is introduced, which is time to market. An analysis of the impact of "winning" the time to market race provides insight into a key industry driver. This work provides an improved understanding of the market forces that drive the semiconductor industry.The technology acceleration of the ITRS Roadmap has many implications on both the semiconductor supplier community and the manufacturers. This work examines the impact of technology acceleration on the suppliers, the manufacturers of tools, materials, and masks. From an Industry perspective, the development and product life cycle are examined with respect to the resources require
d and the return on investment. Historical information is available regarding the length of time required to develop a manufacturing worthy product. Resource requirement estimates are available, so it is possible to develop an investment curve for product development. Similarly, estimates of total product sales provide the basis of the investment recovery scenario. From these evaluations, the Industry return on investment can be projected. It is possible to evaluate the impact of changes in technology on suppliers as the industry moved from 248nm to 193nm.As part of a sustainable development, the environmental efficiency of industry must increase by a factor four to ten. This engenders attention to the environmental impact of products and technical systems over their entire life cycle. The last decade has seen the development of a number of methodologies and tools for life cycle assessment and development of more eco-efficient products, from complex to simplified, catering to the needs of especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The tools and data are in place, but dissemination lacks behind. Propagation of life cycle thinking and life cycle engineering to larger parts of industry is attempted by strengthening the market pull through integrated product policy measures, and at the same time pushing through information activities, training and dissemination of tools. Experience hitherto shows that these forces are insufficient and that stronger legislation is warranted.This paper discusses an approach to teaching Engineering students about the environmental aspects of design. The course includes subject matter such as Green House Gases, Carbon Trading, Streamlined Life Cycle Analysis [SLCA], combining Functional profiles and Environmental profiles, alternative energy sources [wind, fuel cells and solar], EcoDesign techniques, DFMA and DFD methods and ISO 14000 management standards. These will be described briefly as part of the description of how they are integrated into the course.Sustainable Development encompasses three aspects: care for the environment, responsible social concern and economic viability. How can these principles be incorporated into product design? Historically it is the third principle, economic viability, which has driven the agenda. Classically the challenge has been to optimise the three "P"s - promise, performance, price. Today, the other two principles must be factored into the design process if products are to be successful in the market-place and ensure the sustainability of the business which created them. Environmental design principles are built around life cycle assessment (LCA) understanding the environmental impacts throughout the whole value chain "from cradle to grave". Social factors to be considered include sourcing policies for raw materials, health and safety at work in manufacture, health and safety in use and disposal. Regulation is an increasingly important design driver. For example, European Directives on Packaging Waste, End of Life Vehicles, and Waste Electronic Equipment are setting new constraints and opportunities. Also society and the investment community are looking for measures of environmental and social performance in addition to the traditional financial measures. Indices such as Dow-Jones SAM and Business in the Environment (BiE), underpinned by criteria developed through the Gl
obal Reporting Index (GRI) are being used to discriminate business performance in sustainable development.The environmental impacts of a product are mostly determined within the product design process. In order to integrate the instrument of life cycle assessment into the design process the whole life cycle of a product has to be modeled by the designer. The Collaborative Research Center 392 "design for environment - methods and tools" at the Darmstadt University of Technology was formed in 1996. The aim of the research group is to develop the methods and tools necessary for the designer. At the Institute W.A.R. the impact assessment methods for the tools are developed and improved.This paper reviews steps being taken to reduce the automotive industry's impacts on the environment by reducing vehicle weight. The paper refers to a EU-funded research programme (DILIGHT) to develop a new generation of ductile cast iron for light weight automotive components. A detailed Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) must be conducted to compare the environmental impacts of specific cast automotive components produced in conventional cast iron, aluminium alloy and the proposed DILIGHT alloy. The paper presents the preliminary results for the LCA, which suggest that a vehicle must complete 300,000 kin before obtaining the environmental advantage of aluminium's lower density.Given the growing demand from Governments, financial institutions, customers and the general public for a more responsible approach by companies to sustainable development, it is accepted that businesses must become more sustainable. It is therefore essential, particularly in product design and manufacture that sustainable development thinking and assessment is practised. The particular areas explored are: Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) in which the importance of materials selection, recycling and disposal are assessed Consumption reduction is a major direction resulting from the Johannesburg Summit i.e. waste minimisation and prevention Identification of Risks and Opportunities from sustainable product development assessment within companies In addition sustainable development concepts, tools, background and sources of information are provided on an interactive website for use by manufacturers and design students. This work is sponsored by the Royal Academy of Engineering as part of the Visiting Professors Sustainable Design scheme for Engineering design students.To help companies address the requirements of the European take-back and producer responsibility legislation a novel systems analysis tool has been developed: CHAin Management of Materials, Products and Processes (CHAMP). CHAMP combines elements of process and design engineering with life cycle assessment to enable the user to explore the technical, economic and environmental consequences of selecting alternative materials, processes and technologies and different strategies for material recovery and recycling. This paper applies the CHAMP methodology to a case study concerning fibre optic cable which is being redesigned to increase the material recyclability potential. The current cable design is sufficiently complex that dismantling and subsequent recycling is not possible. Changes to the design have been suggested that would improve the recycling potential of the component materials and CHAMP has been utilised to assess the life cycle i
mpact of these design changes both economically and environmentally.The SPIn-Eco project has been proposed and funded with the aim of studying the Province of Siena (Italy) and the Communes in which it is divided from the viewpoint of sustainable development. Several sustainability indicators, especially originating from holistic approaches, are used. These indicators point out the weak and strong points for the territory with respect to sustainability and the results will be offered to the policy makers as tools for planning. Indicators which will be used are the result of the following methodologies: Ecological Footprint Exergy analysis Emergy evaluation Natural capital and ecosystems services accounting Greenhouse gases balance Remote sensing data analysis Life Cycle Assessment.Today, transportation relies almost entirely on oil-based fuels and about 30% of the world's fossil fuel consumption is related to transports. The reduction of fossil energy reserves and the associated environmental impact are the two main reasons that lead to consider the use of alternative fuels in transportation. Fuels derived from biomass, also referred to as biofuels, are not only potentially renewable, but are also sufficiently similar to fossil fuels to provide direct substitution. It seems also to be the only realistic alternative to fossil fuel in the short term. This article focuses on the potential of bioethanol as an alternative to conventional fossil fuels in terms of non-renewable energy use as well as reduction of carbon emissions.The total production processes of a biomass gasification combined-cycle power plant, a coal-fired, power plant, and a co-combustion power plant of fuel gases from biomass gasification and coal were analyzed by means of LCA. The emission of greenhouse gases, such as CO2, CH4, N2O, acid rain gases, such as SOx, NOx, CO, trace metal, trace organic matter were calculated. The results show that, in the whole life cycle of 1kW. helectricity generation, the emission of CO2, NOx, SOx, CH4 in the biomass gasification combined-cycle power plant are less than that in the coal-fired power plant. Respectively, that in the former is 9.2%, 15.3%, 2.7%, and 94.6% of that in the latter. But the emission of CO, N2O in the former is slightly greater than that in the latter. Additionally, the emission in the co-fired power plant of fuel gases from biomass gasification and coal is less than that in the coal-fired power plant.In order to provide useful references for China to establish the scheme of hydrogen source for fuel cell vehicles in the near future and facilitate the hydrogen energy system assessment in China, the paper for the first time designs four feasible plans of hydrogen source via natural gas steam reforming for fuel cell vehicles, then uses energy, environmental and economic life cycle assessment as the tool to evaluate the energy, environmental and economic performances of those four plans and picks out the best plan. The results show that the best plan of hydrogen source is: hydrogen is produced by natural gas steam reforming in the central factory, then transported to the refueling stations in the hydrogen gas cylinders by the trucks, at last filled into the fuel cell vehicles which use hydrogen gas.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and comprehensive models represent, at present, two powerful tools to support decision-makers in 
the definition of environmental recovery strategies. Their integration can therefore represent an essential step for defining an advanced methodology to perform a robust multicriteria decision analysis which enables the individuation of the best compromise solution. In particular, LCA is useful for representing and analysing in more detail the different life steps of products, processes and activities, with their related burdens. On the other hand, optimising models allows users to individuate, with a global approach, the least cost technology configuration corresponding to exogenous constraints, and to estimate its overall economic and environmental impact. The integration of comprehensive and LCA models is thus envisaged to perform a deeper analysis of the whole anthropogenic system, taking into account different possible scenarios for the development of socio-economic and environmental boundaries. Moreover it can enable the choice of Best Practicable Environmental Options (BPEO) by using a minimum cost criterion. The ongoing research deals with a combined use of the LCA SimaPro software and the comprehensive MARKAL- Val d'Agri model for the analysis of the energy transformation sector of Val d'Agri, located in Basilicata Region (Southern Italy), in order to define a sustainable and economically affordable configuration of the local energy activities.The use of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for materials/product design is increasing in relevance at the European building industry level. The possibility to investigate the environmental burden of materials and products for building construction, either for civil or industrial use, is a practice that can help the designer in the selection of solutions able to provide lower environmental impacts during construction and the use phase. Taking into account the wide availability of different materials, their selection in the case of buildings is a particularly difficult performance issue because a single building results from the combination of many possibilities. First of all the designer has to select functions that can be realised with the use of different materials and this constitutes the basis for the application of the LCA methodology, with particular regard to the comparison and simulation stage. The passage from a subjective choice of ecological materials, based on the perception of natural characteristics, to an objective identification and absolute measure of environmental burden, linked to the specific material production in a life-cycle perspective, constitutes the main feature of the revised bio-architectural approach that foresees sustainability as a key element for a successful project. This paper reports the application of eco-design methodology to an Eco-Industrial Park (EIP) situated in a rural area in the North-West of Italy which has been financed by the European Commission.An exergetic life cycle assessment (ELCA) and a classical environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) have been performed for three carbon dioxide low emission power cycles. The configuration of the power cycles are: a semi-closed gas turbine combined cycle with CO2 reduction from the exhausts by means of amine solution chemical absorption; an integrated gasification combined cycle with CO2 reduction from the synthesis gas by means of amine solution chemical absorption; and O-2/CO2 innovative cycle where, bur
ning methane in oxygen, CO2 becomes the cycle working fluid, and the CO2 excess, produced in the combustion, is removed in liquid phase without any additional system. The LCA is mainly focussed on CO2 production during the three phases of construction, operation and dismantling of the plants. This is necessary to verify if the process is effective in terms Of CO2 reduction. Besides the classic LCA, also an ELCA was performed, whose aim is to assess the cost, in terms of exergy losses, of the life cycle of the plants. The CO2 reduction is effective during the lifetime, and a sort of classification of the studied plant is obtained. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Introduction of zero emission concepts has opened the way for possible commercial markets for battery-powered electric vehicles (EV). In comparison to gasoline-powered cars, these vehicles produce CO2 emission half of that gasoline-powered and almost similar amount in comparison to hybrid electric vehicles over their useful lives. Since most of the emissions in electric vehicles are most likely attributable to production of their very large batteries, environmental consequences of producing and disposing of EV batteries may be significant. This study aims to analyze environmental impacts associated with recycling and waste management of four electric battery technologies likely to be used in the near future. Secondly, it aims to select the most environmentally benign battery technology by considering their manufacturing, political and social viability, environmental impacts and exposure and toxicity potential issues. The EVs' battery technologies considered here are lead acid (PbA), nickel-cadmium (NiCd), nickel metal hydride (NiMH) and sodium-sulfur (NaS). In this study, we compared potential health and environmental impacts of four battery technologies and focused on recycling and waste disposal life stages, with an emphasis on design factors that could prevent or increase impacts. With regard to the evaluation of battery technologies, since the data used are often contradictory, variable, uncertain and sometimes impossible to validate independently, fuzzy linguistic approach is explored here to address this data ambiguity and its results are also being compared to the ranking obtained using a known Promethee-Gaia (PG) approach. Based on PG evaluation, the recycling assessment ranks the batteries studied in the following preferential order: NiMH>NaS>NiCd >PbA. In terms of disposal, NiMH and NaS batteries are of greater concern because of landfill impacts while both NiCd and PbA batteries are considered the most favorable. Almost similar results were also obtained using fuzzy linguistic approach (FLA). But due to the toxic characteristics of cadmium and lead metals, it is still recommended that NiCd and PbA batteries should be recycled instead.The generation of electricity in China resulted in nearly 1,200 megatonnes of carbon dioxide and 8 megatonnes of sulphur dioxide in 2000, approximately 40% of the total national emissions of these two gases respectively. Emissions of sulphur dioxide contribute significantly to the environmental degradation and pollution that plague China. These have been estimated to be as high as 8% of GDP. However, electricity demand is expected to undergo continued growth into the future as China's economy develops and industrializes. A
s such, emissions of sulphur dioxide are expected to grow to 9.4 megatonnes by 2015 and as high as 15.7 megatonnes in 2030, while emissions of carbon dioxide are expected to grow to 1,935 megatonnes by 2015 and as high as 2,654 megatonnes in 2030. In this study the electrical energy system in China is assessed in an integrative assessment framework to the year 2030. Here multiple environmental and economic variables are considered across the entire lifecycle of the energy system. This provides suggestions on the economic and environmental characteristics of different scenarios of electricity supply. First, lifecycle analysis is undertaken to calculate the total emissions of coal and natural gas production systems. Secondly, electricity demand and supply is projected to the year 2030 on a regional basis. Here, different factors impacting electricity demand are considered. Thirdly, we present the environmental and economic impacts of various paths for the development of electricity supply required to meet this above demand. Considered are scenarios for the development of natural gas and clean coal electricity generation. The research considers the economics of capital construction, operations and maintenance costs, and costs associated with environmental externalities. The scenario analysis shows that significant reductions in emissions of both carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide can be made with the power options considered. On a cost per tonne of emissions reduced basis, development of the natural gas electricity capacity seems to be most cost effective.The inability of existing process design and life-cycle analysis (LCA) methods to account for variability and uncertainty may contribute to misleading estimates of pollution prevention, performance, and cost of potentially promising new environmentally conscious technologies. It is hypothesized that the quantification of variability and uncertainty, in combination with detailed process simulation, LCA and integrated assessment, yield new insights regarding how to minimize the risks and maximize the pay-offs of such technologies. The objectives of this work are to develop a novel assessment methodology for evaluation of the risks and potential pay-offs of new technologies that avoid pollutant production; and demonstrate the methodology via a case study of high-temperature waste gasification technology. In this study, a methodology for simultaneous characterization of both variability and uncertainty based upon previous work in emissions estimation, exposure assessment, and risk assessment is employed. To represent uncertainties in any process technology, a probabilistic modeling has been applied. Probabilistic simulation is performed using Latin hypercube sampling, a variance reduction technique based on a stratified sampling approach. The key features of the method include (1) the development of a consistent set of engineering performance and cost models for each technology to be evaluated, (2) the characterization of uncertainties in specific parameters of the engineering models, (3) application of the models in a probabilistic modeling environment to characterize uncertainties in model outputs, and (4) analysis of model results for the purposes of technology evaluation and research planning. Waste gasification is investigated as case study which is a promising approach for clean and effic
ient power generation as well as for polygeneration of a variety of products, such as steam, sulfur, hydrogen, methanol, ammonia, and others. Hence, assessments of advanced process technologies that are in early stages of development should be based on a proper understanding and representation of uncertainties. Probabilistic analysis has implications for the development of more realistic cost estimates that capture the notion of "cost growth" often experienced with innovative process technologies.Over the past decade, a new approach to environmental analysis has developed. Although the scope and definition are not yet completely fixed, the new field of "industrial ecology" focuses on reducing the environmental impacts of goods and services, on systems-based analysis of environmental problems, and on innovations that can significantly improve environmental performance. Industrial ecology has significant potential for U.S. environmental policy. But to establish a firm foundation for significant policy initiatives, there is a need for better understanding of the potential and limitations of a range of promising approaches including: (a) technological innovation, (b) voluntary and cooperative approaches to environmental management, (c) substitution of services for products, (d) recycling and reuse, (e) reduction in the amounts of materials used in products, and (f) substitution of scarce resources with those that are plentiful.Methods for life cycle assessment of products (LCA) are most often based on the general prevention principle, as opposed to the risk minimization principle. Here, the desirability and feasibility of a combined approach are discussed, along with the conditions for elaboration in the framework of LCA methodology, and the consequences for LCA practice. A combined approach provides a separate assessment of above and below threshold pollution, offering the possibility to combat above threshold impacts with priority. Spatial differentiation in fate, exposure, and effect modelling is identified to play a central role in the implementation. The collection of region-specific data turns out to be the most elaborate requirement for the implementation in both methodology and practice. A methodological framework for the construction of characterization factors is provided. Along with spatial differentiation of existing parameters, two newly introduced spatial parameters play a key role: the sensitivity factor and the threshold factor. The practicability of the proposed procedure is illustrated by an example of its application. Providing a reasonable data availability, the development of separate LCA characterization factors for the respective assessment of pollution levels above and below environmental threshold values seems to be a feasible task that may add to LCA credibility.Environmental measures have sometimes unintended side effects. The paper focuses on side effects that are the result of relations and feedback mechanisms between economic activities and industries in production-consumption chains. The theoretical framework of the chain analysis tools, life cycle assessment and substance flow analysis is used to define five different types of environmental measures: volume measures (1), efficiency measures (2), end-of-pipe emission reduction measures (3), re-use and recycling (4) and useful application of waste products (5). E
ach of these types of measures can re-direct substance flow in a different process, thus causing pollutant emissions to the environment to shift to similar or other emissions upstream or downstream in the economic chain. Using this categorization, the occurrence of a number of different processes that can lead to side effects can be predicted. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.With increasing frequency, individuals deliberately choose specific actions that they hope will lessen environmental impact. Given the complexity of modem society, it is not always easy to know how to minimize environmental harm without undue sacrifice. Government policies can have a role in helping individuals make decisions and encouraging them to act in certain ways. Recycling of solid waste materials is a personal choice made by many people in the USA guided by the belief that recycling is not only good for the environment but that it constitutes a major contribution to improving environmental quality. By using energy usage as a proxy for overall environmental impact. we show that the impact reduction achieved through recycling varies for different materials. It is small but significant for some materials, such as aluminum. and minimal for other materials, such as plastic, especially when compared to other choices that individuals have direct control over, such as the type of vehicle they drive or the amount they drive. While the recycling of certain materials, such as aluminum, does result in measurable energy savings, the net benefit of recycling is orders of magnitude smaller than the gains that can be achieved from switching to more fuel-efficient vehicles. Despite this, perception and policy in the USA have focused on recycling rather than personal vehicle choice and increased reliance on public transportation. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The paper describes the development of two teaching modules that support the concept of 'Engineering Design for Sustainable Development', with particular emphasis on the incorporation of LCA. The first module, entitled 'Engineering Design for Sustainable Development', was developed as an intensive, one-week module for a long-standing postgraduate MSc course in Engineering Design. The second, entitled 'Sustainable Product Design', was developed exclusively for the final (fourth) year of an MEng degree in Product Design and Manufacture. The paper summarises the teaching and learning experiences associated with the incorporation of LCA in the modules and provides guidelines for those teachers who would like to incorporate LCA in their courses.A new more efficient solar heating / cooling system has been developed for houses and buildings by an EU co-financed SOLASTORE (5FW ENERGIE) project with a consortium of partners from France, Spain, Portugal and the UK. It is targeting a considerable reduction Of CO2 emission by improvement of the solar energy system efficiency and the extended utilization of the solar energy using reversible chemical reactions as energy storage. Although solar energy is considered environmentally friendly, the whole life cycle of a solar energy production has to be evaluated. The production targets for the SOLARSTORE system are potentially thousands units. This makes it very important to explore the total environmental impacts caused during its whole life cycle. T
his work employs Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), an ISO 14040 based technique for evaluating the total environmental impacts associated with a product, to analyse the total environmental impacts of SOLARSTORE system during its whole life cycle. The standard LCA methodology has been extended and modified to cope successfully with this task. The LCA results show the total environmental impacts to achieve 1 GJ energy by using SOLARSTORE system: global warming potential ranging in 6.3 - 10 kg CO2, acidification potential in 46.6 - 70 9 SO2, eutrophication in 2.1 - 3.1 g phosphate and photochemical oxidant in 0.99 - 1.5 9 C2H4. The raw material acquisition processes contribute 99% to the total environmental impacts. A LCA based comparison has been made analysing the total environmental impacts of a traditional solar heating system, a traditional fossil fuel heating system and SOLARSTORE system. It shows that SOLARSTORE provides a better solution for reduction of negative environmental impacts by using solar energy.The proper design criteria for a modern utility plant should include both environmental and economic requirements. In other words, not only the capital and operating costs of a utility plant but also the corresponding utility wastes must be minimised. The paper presents a systematic multicriteria process synthesis approach for designing sustainable and economic utility systems. The proposed approach enables the design engineer to systematically derive optimal utility systems which are economically sustainable and economic by embedding Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) principles within a multiple objective optimisation framework. It combines the merits of total site analysis, LCA, and multi-objective optimisation techniques.The estimation of persistence and range belongs to the most urgent tasks with regard to the environmental assessment of chemicals which have the potential to distribute ubiquitously. The most direct proof for the ubiquitous occurrence of anthropogenic chemicals is their analytical detection in remote areas; this is not practicable, however, due to the great number of chemicals in question. For a preselection, multimedia models of differing complexity seem to be suitable. The most powerful model with regard to resolution in time and space is based on a global circulation model. This model has been tested with a set of model compounds. The work done by the authors, aimed at testing simpler models with the same set of substances in order to find out, whether the results give at least the same tendency compared to the complex model. The models chosen for this purpose include Chemrange 1.0 + 2.1 and SimpleBox 2.0. The results presented here are restricted to a comparison between the two evaluative models and to persistence under different use pattern scenarios. The model compounds include alpha-HCH, gamma-HCH, atrazine, DDT, PCB-28, -52, -101 and benzo[a]pyren (BaP). The results agree well for the first four compounds, but much less so for the PCBs and BaP.This article describes a procedure for evaluating the environmental soundness of new propulsion systems and new fuels in the road transport sector. Life-cycle assessment was supplemented by cost-benefit analyses to assess passenger cars with different propulsion systems, based on the current environmental situation in road transport, which is strongly dominated by the exhaust a
nd CO2-emission problem. For this purpose, a model was developed, with which the examined vehicles were analysed regarding weight, consumption and further environmental and cost-related characteristics. Different propulsion, fuel and exhaust standard variants for compact passenger cars were assessed with respect to their absolute environmental effects and their effects in comparison to a reference vehicle (petrol engine, suction tube injection, EURO 4). The cost-benefit ratio was calculated on the basis of a static abatement cost approach, in which the costs over the service life of the vehicles are compared with the environmental benefits (e.g. lower emissions compared to the reference vehicle) over the same period. All evaluations take into account vehicle use, fuel production and vehicle manufacture.In the two European funded demonstration projects CUTE (Clean Urban Transport for Europe) and ECTOS (Ecological City Transport System) hydrogen as future fuel for the transportation sector is assessed. 30 fuel cell buses in 10 European cities are regarded in daily utilisation under real boundary conditions. Of special interest are the environmental impacts of the new propulsion system. As concrete results of CUTE and ECTOS will be published later, exemplary results of other studies are presented here. The ecological comparison of different hydrogen production chains and diesel has been conducted. Also a future scenario of the economic consideration of hydrogen infrastructure in Stuttgart is shown.We analyzed "the fuel energy cycle system covering the CO2 capture technology from exhaust gas of coal power plant" using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) according to the scenario based on the calculation of the criteria from fuel production, transportation, power generation, to CO2 recovery and storage, focused on coal. The energy and environmental performances were analyzed for mass (carbon) and heat (energy) balance and three cases were compared for the entire fuel cycle. These are based on the pulverized coal fired plant (PCF). The "Base case" is power generation only; in the other cases, CO2 recovery processes are added; one is the "NEDO case" - that is conventional CO2 recovery technology. The second case is the "MHI case" - that is improved CO2 recovery technology developed by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (MHI). The conclusion of LCA is that direct CO2 emission from power generation or the CO2 recovery in the operation phase, influences greatly their environmental load. In the energy balance, net power generating efficiency for the "base case" is 40.6%. Results from the study showed a reduction, caused by the CO2 recovery, to 33-30%, and total life cycle electricity generation efficiency including off-site energy consumption was 32-29%; it was recognized that off-site energy consumption was very limited. In the carbon balance, when the CO2 capture ratio of 90% was applied, the CO2 emission reductions were 86-85% on the entire fuel cycle, including off-site emission. It was shown that the "MHI CO2 recovery technology" was a higher energy efficiency system than "conventional technology".We have developed a prototype model for optimizing regional energy supply systems in a city. This model calculates the energy demand in a region and then finds the combination of energy supply systems that meets a required CO2 emission limit with minimum cost.
 We carried out an assessment of installing energy supply systems around Shinagawa area in Tokyo where waste heat from sewerage and garbage incineration is expected to be available. In this assessment, we estimate costs and CO2 emissions when the energy supply systems are installed. We conclude that 17% of CO2 emissions from energy supply could be reduced with the same annual total cost as the current combination of energy supply systems in the Shinagawa area. Also, we show that increasing the power generation efficiency of co-generation systems is effective for further reduction of CO2 emissions.In this paper, we evaluated life cycle CO2 (LCCO2) emissions by comparing biomass power plants with a coal power plant of the CO2 removal system. For the concrete investigation of the biomass life cycle analysis (LCA), we selected the reforestation sites in Eastern Highland Province and Madang Province in Papua New Guinea (PNG) as model areas. Then, Casuarina oligodon (C. oligodon) and Eucalyptus deglupta (E. deglupta), which are fast growing trees, were adopted as biomass materials. Especially, C. oligodon has the characteristics of nitrogen fixation from air. As the result, nitrogen fixation to soils is expected to mitigate LCCO2 emissions and direct and indirect energy input in the biomass LCA. The biomass energy system consists of two subsystems, the cultivation process and the energy conversion process. In the cultivation process, we constructed the nutrient circulation model in reforestation area. Nutrients losses by soil erosion are evaluated in this process. In this study, it is assumed that their nutrients are newly supplemented for the purpose of considering the sustainable forest management, and that they are equivalent to chemical fertilizer. In the energy conversion process, we design the Biomass Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (B#IGCC) in PNG. In this study, it is assumed that the plant scale is approximately 59 or 110 MW. Especially, using the basic experimental chemical data, we calculate the performance of gasification. Consequently, we estimated that LCCO2 emissions of BIGCC are 4.4 to 107.2 g-CO2/kWh (E. deglupta) and 2.1 to 63.5 g-CO2/kWh (C. oligodon), while that of Coal-IGCC with CO2 removal equipment is 50.5 g-CO2/kWh.Environment Management Plans use Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of various products for development of clean technologies, resource conservation and eliminating areas/activities where there are chances of environmental degradation or pronounced emissions at any stage of extraction of raw materials, transfer, storage or use in manufacturing of product or by-product development. LCA considers the environmental impacts along the continuum of a product's life (i.e. from cradle to grave) from raw materials acquisition to production, use, and disposal or recovery. The environmental impacts considered include resource depletion, human health, energy use and ecological health. The concept of life cycle thinking is a unique way of addressing environmental problems from a system or holistic perspective. In this way a product is evaluated or designed with a goal of reducing environmental impacts over its entire life cycle. Automobile sector in the Indian scenario had taken a long time to transform with the changing scenario. The need for overall cleaner means of transportation was acutely felt in the metropolis of th
e country. This provoked environmentalist and public to trigger activities with the help of judiciary to set up stringent norms so that precious lives are protected. Some of the well known environmental interventions used LCA of various products, to set up and trigger action planning for introduction of clean fuel to reduce emission of Green House Gases and other pollutants even at the cost of restricting/withdrawing non conforming vehicles especially public transport which is the major contributor to the pollution in the cities.As an implementation strategy of the federal retroreflectivity standards requirement for pavement markings, the New Jersey Department of Transportation (DOT) evaluated its 3-year fixed-schedule restriping strategy, to determine if it is consistent with the actual service life of the pavement markings. The methodology and results of the study are presented., Two types of data were collected: measured retroreflectivity by using LaserLux and subjective ratings from a survey conducted with the participation of the New Jersey driving public along a 32-mi circuit. Multiple regression techniques were used to correlate the average scores reported by the study participants for each specific roadway section with the corresponding measured retroreflectivity. The results suggested that the threshold value of an acceptable versus unacceptable level of retroreflectivity appeared to be between 80 and 130 mcd/m(2)/lux for New, Jersey drivers younger than 55 and between 120 and 165 mcd/m2/lux for drivers older than 55. These results are consistent with conclusions reached by other investigators in similar research, where results generally ranged between 70 and 170 mcd/m(2)/lux. Interim visibility indices were developed for each age group per pavement-marking type. New Jersey DOT used the indices to determine and prioritize needs and to quantify needed related resources, on the basis of the threshold between acceptable retroreflectivity and unacceptable retroreflectivity, when it developed its pavement-marking management system. This approach also allows for cost-benefit and life-cycle analysis for different pavement marking materials.Milk, an example of staple food, has an outstanding demand by consumers as it is considered a prescription for good health. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an excellent tool of environmental management and it provides a widespread knowledge on the environmental burdens associated to a product or to a human activity. In this study, a simplified methodology of LCA has been applied to analyse a representative scheme of milk production in Galicia (Spain), where a reliable inventory is still lacking. High quality data for the inventory was obtained in different representative fodder factories, farms and dairies for time periods over two years. The analysis of these data by LCA has permitted to quantify the potential impact associated to milk production and also to determine the reductions attained by the application of different improvement actions, such as the most adequate formulation of cattle feed and the implementation of treatment systems for water and air emissions. The consideration of these actions can lead to a maximum reduction of almost 22% of the global normalised impact. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Background. In Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA), decision makers are often fac
ed with tradeoffs between current and future impacts. One typical example is waste incineration, where immediate emissions to the air from the incineration process have to be weighted against future emissions of slag landfills. Long-term impacts are either completely taken into account or they are entirely disregarded in case of a temporal cut-off. Temporal cutoffs are a special case of discounting. Objective. In this paper, discounting is defined as valuing damages differently at different points of time using a positive or negative discount rate. Apart from temporal cut-offs, discounting has rarely been applied in LCA so far. It is the goal of this paper to discuss the concept of discounting and its applicability in the context of LCA. Methods. For this purpose, we first review the arguments for discounting and its principles in economic sciences. Discounting in economics can be motivated by pure time preference, productivity of capital, diminishing marginal utility of consumption, and uncertainties. The nominal discount rate additionally includes changes in the price level. These arguments and their justification are discussed in the context of environmental impacts harming future generations. Results and Discussion. It is concluded that discounting across generations because of pure time preference contradicts fundamental ethical values and should therefore not be applied in LCA. However, it has to be acknowledged that in practice decision makers often use positive discount rates because of pure time preference - either because they might profit from imposing environmental damage on others instead of themselves or because people in the far future are not of immediate concern to them. Discounting because of the productivity of capital assumes a relationship between monetary values and environmental impact. If such a relationship is accepted, discounting could be applied. However, future generations should be compensated for the environmental damage. It is likely that they would demand a higher compensation if the real per capita income increases. As both the compensation and the discount rate are related to economic growth, the overall discount rate might be close to zero. It is shown that the overall discount rate might even be negative considering that the required compensation could increase (even to infinite) if natural assets remain scarce, whereas the utility of consumption diminishes with increasing income. Uncertainties could justify both positive and negative discount rates. Since the relationship between uncertainties and the magnitude of damage is generally not exponential, we recommend to model changes in the magnitude of damage in scenario analysis instead of considering it in discounting (which requires an exponential function of time in the case of a constant discount rate). We investigated the influence of discounting in a case study of heavy metal emissions from slag landfills. It could be shown that even small discount rates of less than 1% lead to a significant reduction of the impact score, whereas negative discount rates inflate the results. Conclusions and Recommendations. Discounting is only applicable when temporally differentiated data is available. In some cases, such a temporal differentiation is necessary to take sound decisions, especially when long emission periods are involved. An example is the disposal 
of nuclear or heavy metal-containing waste. In these cases, the results might completely depend on the discount rate. This paper helps to structure arguments and thus to support the decision about whether or not discounting should be applied in an LCA.The site-generic approach currently adopted by the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology introduces uncertainties into the impact assessment phase of an LCA study. These uncertainties are greatest for localised and short-lived problems but are less significant for long lasting, cumulative environmental effects. Indeed, the reliability of LCA results is high for problems that manifest at a global scale. Nevertheless, even though these results are considered accurate, it is still often unclear as to their relevance in terms of policy development and decision-making. Therefore, this paper demonstrates how LCA can be used to determine the efficacy of policies aimed at reducing a product system's contribution to global environmental problems. We accomplish this aim by presenting a case study that evaluates the greenhouse gas contributions of each stage in the life cycle of container board packaging and the potential impact on emissions of various policy options available to decision makers. Our analysis showed that in general the most useful strategy was to recycle the used packaging. However, our analysis also indicated that when measures are taken to eliminate sources of methane emissions and encourage the use of plantation timber then recycling is no longer beneficial from a greenhouse perspective. This is because the process energy required in the form of gas and electricity is substantially greater for container board manufactured from recycled material than it is for virgin fibre.Goal and Background. LCIA procedures that have been used in the South Africa manufacturing industry include the CML, Ecopoints, EPS and Eco-indicators 95 and 99 procedures. The aim of this paper is to evaluate and compare the applicability of these European LCIA procedures within the South African context, using a case study. Methods. The five European methods have been evaluated based on the applicability of the respective classification, characterisation, normalization and weighting approaches for the South African situation. Impact categories have been grouped into air, water, land and mined abiotic resources for evaluation purposes. The evaluation and comparison is further based on a cradle-to-gate Screening Life Cycle Assessment (SLCA) case study of the production of dyed two-fold wool yarn in South Africa. Results and Discussion. Where land is considered as a separate category (CML, Eco-indicator 99 and EPS), the case study highlights this inventory constituent as the most important. Similarly, water usage is shown as the second most important in one LCIA procedure (EPS) where it is taken into account. However, the impact assessment modelling for these categories may not be applicable for the variance in South African ecosystems. If land and water is excluded from the interpretation, air emissions, coal usage, ash disposal, pesticides and chrome emissions to water are the important constituents in the South African wool industry. Conclusions. In most cases impact categories and procedures defined in the LCIA methods for air pollution, human health and mined abiotic resources are applicable in South Africa. 
However, the relevance of the methods is reduced where categories are used that impact ecosystem quality, as ecosystems differ significantly between South Africa and the European continent. The methods are especially limited with respect to water and land resources. Normalisation and weighting procedures may also be difficult to adapt to South African conditions, due to the lack of background information and social, cultural and political differences. Recommendations and Outlook. Further research is underway to develop a framework for a South African LCIA procedure, which will be adapted from the available European procedures. The wool SLCA must be revisited to evaluate and compare the proposed framework with the existing LCIA procedures.Goal, Scope and Background. The purpose of the present study was to perform an environmental assessment for the entire life cycle of a seafood product and to include fishery-specific types of environmental impact in inventory and assessment. Environmental data for a frozen block of cod fillets was collected and used for a Life Cycle Assessment, including the fishery-specific environmental aspects seafloor use and biological extraction of target, by-catch and discard species. The fishery takes place in the Baltic Sea where cod is mainly fished by benthic trawls and gillnets. Methods. The functional unit was a consumer package of frozen cod fillets (400 g) reaching the household. Data was gathered from fishermen, fishery statistics, databases, companies and literature. Fishery-specific issues like the impact on stocks of the target and by-catch species, seafloor impact and discarding were quantified in relation to the functional unit and qualitative impact assessment of these aspects was included. Results. Findings include the fact that all environmental impact categories assessed (Global Warming Potential, Eutrophication Potential, Acidification Potential, Photochemical Ozone Creation Potential and Aquatic Ecotoxiciy) are dominated by the fishery. Around 700 m(2) of seafloor are swept by trawls and around 50 g of under-sized cod and other marine species are discarded per functional unit. The phases contributing most to total environmental impact following fishery were transports and preparation in the household. The process industry and municipal sewage treatment cause considerable amounts of eutrophying emissions. Conclusions. Conclusions are that there are considerable options for improvement of the environmental performance of the seafood production chain. In the fishery, the most important environmental measure is to fish sustainably managed stocks. Speed optimisation, increased use of less energy-intensive fishing gear and improved engine and fuel technology are technical measures that would considerably decrease resource use and environmental impact caused by fishery. Due to the importance of fishery for the overall results, the most important environmental improvement option after landing is to maintain high quality and minimise product losses. Recommendations and Outlook. The need for good baseline data concerning resource use and marine environmental impact of fisheries in order to perform environmental assessment of seafood products was demonstrated. LCA was shown to be a valuable tool for such assessments, which in the future could be used to improve the environmental performance of the seafood 
production chain or in the development of criteria of eco-labelling of seafood products originating in capture fisheries.Background. Small and medium sized enterprises in developed regions, as well as larger 'Southern' firms are more exposed to risk in regards to allocation decisions. This includes expenditures on fixed as sets, R&D and environmental management, as well as the choice of suitable markets for the product or service at hand. For either type of firm, the consequences of not selecting, or timing, suitable markets can lead to bankruptcy. Objectives. This paper examines means for SMEs to expand internationally given the current fiscal climate, and rapid advances in certain enabling technologies. The goal is to identify a set of criteria which smaller firms can use to globalize which reduce risk and increase access to capital. Methods. Case studies are presented of a European Start-Up as well as a century-old Latin American firm, both in the water-treatment sector. The similarities in the risk-reward profiles are used to identify some key strategic guidelines for enterprises wishing to be, selectively, multinational. Results and Discussion. Selective multinationality is an immediate plan for international expansion which identifies the most appropriate markets, independent of their proximity to the firm's production base or headquarters. At the base of selective multinationality, is the goal to impose the firm's product in regions of high growth, high selling price and low risk of price dumping. Therefore, this requires the to resist the temptation to expand to markets based on merely geographical proximity. The globalization strategy should be established, along with environmental management, from the outset of the creation of the firm. It will be shown, herein, to be a key driver in the valuation of High Tech industrial SMEs, in particular those with high risk-high reward tradeoffs. Selective multinationality can best be implemented if the firm in question has a technology which addresses unmet needs in niche markets, where there is an expanding customer base focusing on client relationships and cost effectiveness, and where the multinationals enter from outside the sector via resellers. It will be demonstrated to be effective for startups from developed regions, as well as SMEs from developing/emerging countries, to both of whom the consequences of sub-optimal resource allocation can risk the future of the firm itself. Therefore, SMEs can, with appropriate planning and the integration of marketing and environmental strategies, become, selectively, global firms, with better credit access and sales growth, concomitant with lower risks. The High Tech industrial SME will succeed better if, from the outset, they behave like the organization they want to become, with globalization a key element of strategy, from the business plan foreword. Two case studies are presented, one documenting the water sector and the other the cost savings possible by integrating environmental management into the firm's strategy.Aim, Scope and background. Given the communication limitation of a damage-oriented approach, the question addressed in this paper is how normalisation can be developed instead. Normalisation of product service systems without value choices is, in accordance to ISO 14042, suitable for external communication. Reason normalisation ap
proaches use a geographically-defined baseline year of emissions, optionally combined with politically established target emissions (Guinee 2002, Stranddorf et al. 2001). In contradiction to these approaches, this paper aims to draw up the general structure of an alternative normalisation procedure. The normalisation procedure suggested here is based on environmental quality objectives (EQO), in order to streamline the result to include as few output parameters as possible, without compromising the scientific robustness of the method. Main Features. This article describes a normalisation procedure based on environmental quality objectives. Comparison between this approach and a damage-oriented approach is conducted. The relevant working area concerning dose and effect is evaluated. Then a discussion is conducted focusing on the trade-off necessary to achieve an integrated category indicator, covering the following issues; model reliability, user applicability and the unambiguously of the result. Result. A damage-oriented approach will have to take into account all the defined consequences from all impact categories that affect the safeguards in parallel. In other words, each impact category indicator and its potential effects on all safeguards must be evaluated and accounted for. In the case where a single category indicator cannot be found without utilising value choices, a number of category indicators will then have to constitute an intermediate category indicator result, where weighting must be applied in order to streamline the result. In contrast to the above approach, the suggested normalisation procedure utilises the precautionary principle with respect to the essential EQO in order to achieve a category indicator result, called a critical load category indicator result. In practice, this means that the number of figures in an LCIA-profile based on critical load will always be the same as the number of impact categories. Conclusions. The suggested EQO normalisation procedure forms a set of critical loads per impact category, where each is defined by a critical load function where linearity is defined between a zero load and the critical load. This procedure will affect the temporal resolution and the field of application of the LCIA method. The positive aspect is that the suggested normalisation procedure renders the method applicable for long-lived products like, for example, buildings or other infrastructures. This aspect is gained by reducing the damage-oriented resolution. Consequently, for long-lived products where the main environmental loads will appear in the future, it is hard to assess by a damage-oriented LCIA method (if all boundary conditions are not assumed to be fixed). The EQO normalisation method will, in this respect, improve the overall reliability of the outcome of an LCA when long-lived products are assessed. For short-lived products, adequate boundary conditions can be achieved, and for this reason a damage-oriented approach will have the possibility to address current consequences. Nevertheless, a damage-oriented approach working area is not applicable beneath thresholds unlike the EQO normalisation procedure. The most effective decision support of short-lived products is therefore achieved when both approaches are applied. Outlook. A complementary paper will be produced where the described normalisation pro
cedure is exemplified in a case study, with special interest on assessment of chemical substances.Background and Objectives. Multiple Criteria Decision Aid (MCDA) methods may be employed in a great number of fields. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a specific method among the MCDA Methods. A stage of MCDA methods to be respected in LCA is the comparative evaluation of the environmental impacts. This stage is the most difficult to implement because it is a question of estimating the global environmental impact of the life cycles studied. To achieve this purpose, it is necessary to model the environmental impacts and to apply a Multicriteria Analysis (MCA) method. The problem is to choose the most suitable among the available MCA methods. The objective of this paper is to help the LCA practitioner to make this choice. Methodology. The MCA methods are compared according to their non-compensatory degree, their sensitivity to thresholds, their practicability and their workability. Results and Conclusion. The protocol presented in this paper allows to choose the most appropriate MCA method for a given LCA according to the four previous criteria. This choice will depend on the priorities of the decision maker with concern to the comparison criteria.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background, Objectives. Environmental effects caused by the railway transport services have rarely been investigated in depth from a systemic point of view. A screening LCA, called ecology profile, of the German high-speed passenger train system, the ICE, is presented here, based on a study conducted by the University of Halle and the Deutsche Balm AG, the major German rail operator. In this study, the resource consumption caused by traction, manufacturing and maintenance of ICE trains, as well as construction and operation of the supporting, rail infrastructure and buildings, have been evaluated using cumulative energy demand (CED), cumulative material input per service unit (MIPS) and CO2 emissions as indicators. Methods. Approximately 200 items of inventory data were collected from DB AG experts, manufacturers, site balances and the associated literature. They were allocated in order to derive 100-person-kilometre-related mass and energy consumption figures. The appropriate CED, MIPS and CO2 factors were applied in order to quantify the indirect efforts associated with the inventory data. Conclusions. For the reference high-speed route investigated, Hanover-Wuerzburg, the railroad infrastructure does not contribute the high share of resource consumption to the life cycle of the transport service which was expected from other studies. For the reference route, the CED of the infrastructure contributes 13% to the total CED per 100 person kilometres, whilst the energy demand of the traction process dominates the life cycle. Within the railway infrastructure, the construction of tunnels and the heating of rail points during winter time are significant primary-energy active components, whereas the energy requirement for maintaining the railway stations is a minor factor in comparison. The environmental impact of new technologies for designing rail tracks have also been analysed. The new ballastless slab track technology investigated needs higher absolute resource inputs in the construction phase compared with the traditional gravel bed, but due to higher life expectancy, it competes
 favourably at the 100-person-kilometre level, at least in terms of material requirements. Efforts to reduce the traction energy consumption of the ICE train will have the greatest impact on the CED of the transport system. In summary, a total of 48 kg of solid primary resources are needed for a passenger to travel 100 kin by ICE. Recommendations/Outlook. The results presented can be used for modelling other high-speed railway transport systems. A comparison of the ecology profiles of the German, French and Japanese high-speed train systems would be of interest in order to identify potential areas for improvement. Additional studies are needed to evaluate the short-hop, commuter train service. Further efforts should be directed to comparing the infrastructure of the high speed train and that of highway road traffic.Goal, Scope and Background. The object of the study is the Italian system of plastic packaging waste recycling, active until 2001, that collected and mechanically recycled the post-consumer PE and PET liquid containers. The phases of collection, compaction, sorting, reprocessing and refuse disposal were individually analysed and quantified in terms of energy and material consumptions as well as of emissions in the environment. The work is the result of a joint research project with the Italian Consortium for Packaging (CONAI), carried out in co-operation with the main Italian companies active in the field. The main aim was the quantification of the real advantage of plastic container recycling and the definition of criteria, at the same time environmentally compatible and economically sustainable, for their management. Main Features. For each of the unit processes, and in order to increase the data quality, all the data of interest were collected during technical visits to several selected plants active in Italy or deduced by official documents and certificate declarations of the same companies. To allow comparison of resource consumption and environmental pollution from different management scenarios producing different products, the basket of products method was applied. Results. The results indicates that the production of 1 kg of flakes of recycled PET requires a total amount of gross energy that is in the range of between 42 and 55 MJ, depending on whether the process wastes (mainly coming from sorting and reprocessing activities) were sent or not to the energy recovery. The same quantiry of virgin PET requires more than 77 MJ. The energetic (and then environmental) saving is so remarkable, even for PE, being 40-49 MJ for the recycled polymer and about 80 MJ that for the virgin polyolefin. The calculations were made with the reasonable assumption that the final utilisation can use the virgin or the recycled polymer without any difference. Conclusions and Outlook. The analysis defined and verified a suitable tool in the field, based on objective data, for comparing different coherent scenarios of waste management politics. This allows one to propose the extension of the tool under different collection schemes, as well as for different systems of packaging recycling. As an immediate consequence of the success of the present study, the joint-research programme with CONAI has been extended for another three years. The focus will be the Italian system for paper and paperboard recycling and that for all plastic packagings. In pa
rallel, a different study has been scheduled with reference to the integrated solid waste management of the Regione Campania, the largest and most populated area in the South of Italy.Intention and Background. This paper outlines guidelines for the treatment of energy in LCAs of forest products. The paper is a result of the Cost Action E 9 'Life cycle assessment of forestry and forest products' and reflects the experience of Cost E9 delegates, contributing to Working Group 'End of life-recycling, disposal and energy generation'. Objectives. After overviewing different aspects of energy in LCA of forest products, the most important aspects are identified: 1) energy and carbon balance, 2) energy generation, 3) energy substitution and 4) comparison with other waste management options. For these aspects, guidelines are developed and examples are given to demonstrate the practical application of recommended guidelines. Conclusions. Beside the proper treatment of the above mentioned aspects, the following conclusions for the LCA practitioners are given: 1) Draw attention to losses of potential energy in carbon flows. 2) Compared to heating value of biomass the auxiliary energy need is low (< 10%). 3) The substitution rate (bioenergy for fossil fuel) might be lower than 100%, depending on technical systems available. 4) A high substitution rate might be an optimisation criterion for LCA. 5) A sensitivity analysis of different substitution criteria should be made. 6) Compare energy generation to other waste management options. 7) Use of bioenergy might be 'CO2-neutral', but not 'CO2-free'. 8) Most important benefit of bioenergy is greenhouse gas reduction by substituting fossil energy.Goal, Scope and Background. Two methods of simplified LCA were evaluated and compared to the results of a quantitative LCA. These are the Environmentally responsible product assessment matrix developed by Graedel and Allenby and the MECO-method developed in Denmark. Methods. We used these in a case study and compared the results with the results from a quantitative LCA. The evaluation also included other criteria, such as the field of application and the level of arbitrariness. Results and Discussion. The MECO-method has some positive qualities compared to the Environmentally responsible product assessment matrix. Examples of this are that it generates information complementary to the quantitative LCA and provides the possibility to consider quantitative information when such is available. Some of the drawbacks with the Environmentally responsible product assessment matrix are that it does not include the whole lifecycle and that it allows some arbitrariness. Conclusions. Our study shows that a simplified and semi-quantitative LCA (such as the MECO-method) can provide information that is complementary to a quantitative LCA. In this case the method generates more information on toxic substances and other impacts, than the quantitative LCA. We suggest that a simplified LCA can be used both as a pre-study to a quantitative LCA and as a parallel assessment, which is used together with the quantitative LCA in the interpretation. Recommendations and Outlook. A general problem with qualitative analyses is how to compare different aspects. Life cycle assessments are comparative. The lack of a quantitative dimension hinders the comparison and can thereby hinder the usefulnes
s of the qualitative method. There are different approaches suggested to semiquantify simplified methods in order to make quantitative comparisons possible. We think that the use of fabricated scoring systems should be avoided. If quantitative information is needed, one should consider performing a simplified quantitative LCA instead.Scope. In this study, a dynamic model was built in which LCA and PBM were integrated to quantitatively assess the total environmental impacts induced by the product population in a society over time. Specifically, a determination was carried out concerning how Japan's air conditioner population is used (lifetime distribution, number of units, etc.) and an assessment was made concerning the Global Warming Potential (GWP) associated with the air conditioner population. Methods. The proposed dynamic model was applied to air conditioners for analyzing the total GWP caused by the air conditioner population in Japan from 1990 to 2010. To create a trend forecast model for future environmental load, scenarios for air conditioner production up to 2010 were formulated and the total GWP from the air conditioner population was predicted. Conducted also were sensitivity analyses whose parameters were air conditioner performance, lifetime and the rate of refrigerant recovery when retired units are processed. Results and Discussion. Applying the PBM to the air conditioner population in 2000, it was found that 81.5 million units consumed 5.94 x 10(10) kWh in that year, which was a 6.1% increase in the total annual power consumption in 1990. In both a stationary scenario and a steady growth (1.5% annual increase), it was found that the total GWP would be 27.7% higher than in 1990 under the stationary scenario and 37.8% higher under the steady growth scenario. The improvements in air conditioner performance will have a small effect on reducing the total GWP from that population. Furthermore, in connection with the average lifetime, it was found that the GWP, due to refrigerant releases when units are disposed of, would be relatively large in 2000 and the following years. Conclusions. Thus, shorter product lifetimes will spur a replacement of air conditioners with new units, a situation that will only lead to the reduction of GWP if the recovery rate of refrigerant is to be achieved to more than 50% under the stationary scenario. Recommendations and Outlook. To meet COP3 targets for Japan in 2010 (i.e. to reach the same level as in 1990 for household appliances), our study shows that it will be vital to raise the refrigerant recovery rate. If the number of air conditioners in use remains unchanged, recovery would have to be 45.7%, but under the steady growth scenario it would have to be at least 60.4%. Therefore, it will be difficult to meet COP3 targets unless the refrigerant recovery rate is strongly increased. This method is applicable to assess not only the GWP of air conditioners, but also other environmental impacts caused by a variety of product populations, which will be quite effective for setting targets of products' performance, policymaking, etc.Objective, Scope, Background. A comprehensive Life Cycle Assessment was conducted on bio-ethanol produced using a new process that converts cellulosic biomass by enzymatic hydrolysis. Options for sourcing the feedstock either from agricultural and wood waste, or, if the dema
nd for bio-ethanol is sufficient, from cultivation are examined. The main focus of the analysis was to determine its potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a 10% blend of this bio-ethanol with gasoline (E10) as a transportation fuel. Methods. SimaPro 4.0 was used as the analysis tool, which allowed a range of other environmental impacts also to be examined to assess the overall relative performance to gasoline alone. All impacts were assigned to the fuel because of uncertainties in markets for the by-products. This LCA therefore represents a worst case scenario. Results, Conclusion. It is shown that E10 gives an improved environmental performance in some impact categories, including greenhouse gas emissions, but has inferior performances in others. Whether the potential benefits of the bio-ethanol blend to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will be realized is shown to be particularly sensitive to the source of energy used to produce the process steam required to break down the cellulose to produce sugars and to distil the final product. One key area where improvements in environmental performance might be derived is in enzyme production. Recommendations and Outlook. The LCA profile helps to highlight those areas where positive and negative environmental impacts can be expected. Technological innovation can be directed accordingly to preserve the benefits while minimizing the negative impacts as development progresses to commercial scales.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background. Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) are increasingly used in the building sector as a decision-support tool in the design phase of buildings to enable environmentally sound choices of materials and products. The practice in Europe of today regarding product choices is mainly based on cradle to gate LCAs and is quite commonly disregarding the usage phase. The main reason for this is the fragmented structure of the building sector in which the application of specific materials and products is unknown to the manufacturer. The environmental information supplied by the manufacturers to the designers of buildings only relates to the production phase, limited to typical cradle to gate data. A specific material or product choice can however have a considerable impact during the usage phase. Predicting the magnitude of an environmental load originating in the usage phase, as the result of a building product can in some cases be based on information on both product- and building level. To date there are no structured procedures for the inclusion of this information in LCA-studies, even-though it is desirable to include the full product fife cycle when including environmental parameters in a product choice. Objective. A procedure for assessing the relevance and the possibility to include the usage phase in a structured way is proposed. Considerable effort has also been put into explaining the underlying obstacles of today's practice in handling the connection between the choice of building products and its resulting impacts in the usage phase. Methods. The proposed procedure is primary based on experiences and findings from a comprehensive study on maintenance of floor coverings, together with an inventory of the state of the art regarding LCA in the building sector. Results and Discussion. The procedure is divided into two steps where the first step is a preliminary estimate o
f the relevance of the usage phase in a building product comparison. Based on this step, step two can be entered. Step two is a judgement of the possibility to quantify the potential environmental loads that can occur in the usage phase. For step one, four different types of sources of potential environmental loads have been found; emissions from the product to the indoor environment, emissions from the product to the outdoor environment, influence on the resource flow in a building, and finally the demands for maintenance, leading to other recurring loads. For step two, the focus in this article is on maintenance, for which a model structure is proposed as a base for the development of a model to estimate the environmental loads. The three other sources of environmental loads are handled more briefly. Conclusions. The usage phase should to a larger extend be regarded in a product choice situation, when LCA is used as a tool. First, the relevance of including the usage phase should be assessed. Second, the possibility to estimate the environmental loads should be considered. The reason for an exclusion of the usage phase should more clearly be explained, if it is due to lack of relevance or data/models. Recommendation and Outlook. The proposed procedure shall be regarded as a way to obtain preliminary estimates of the relevance and possibilities to include the usage phase in a product choice situation. Thereby, the handling of the usage phase by the suggested procedure is not a method for estimating the environmental loads but rather a procedure for an inventory of the relevance and possibility to estimate the environmental loads.Goal, Scope and Background. China is one of the main producers of metallic zinc and its annual production has been becoming the largest in the world since the year 2000. To improve the environmental situation of zinc production in China, a life cycle assessment was performed for hydro and pyro-metallurgical processes, based on the case study of Zhuzhou Smelter and Shaoguan metallurgical plant, respectively. Methods. The system is modeled into several sub-modules so as to identify the source of environmental impacts. Results and Discussion. The main results of LCA study are summarized as follows: (1) Hydro-metallurgical process is superior to pyro-metallurgical process in GWP and inferior to pyro-metallurgical process in GER and ACR (2) Compared with the advanced foreign zinc metallurgical process, the GWP, ACP and HME of the zinc metallurgical process in China are much higher. (3) In hydro-metallurgical processes, residue treatment and auxiliary processes are the main contributors of ACP and GWP, which are the key sub-modules, and should be improved. In pyro-metallurgical processes, the main sub-modules needing improvement are smelting, power and electricity generation. (4) Electricity is the main energy consumption in the hydro-metallurgical processes, accounting for 60% of GER. In pyro-metallurgical process, main energy sources are metallurgical coke and anthracite, both also accounting for 60% of GER. Conclusions. According to the discovery of LCA study, three main measures to improve the environmental performance of zinc products were proposed: 1) Regulating the structure of energy sources of Shaoguan Smelter, 2) removing SO2 in low concentration from flue gas by absorption with zinc oxide, and 3) adjusting t
he material structure of Walze rotary furnace.Sustainability-a term originating from silviculture, which was adopted by UNEP as the main political goal for the future development of humankind-is also the ultimate aim of product development. It comprises three components: environment, economy and social aspects which have to be properly assessed and balanced if a new product is to be designed or an existing one is to be improved. The responsibility of the researchers involved in the assessment is to provide appropriate and reliable instruments. For the environmental part there is already an internationally standardized tool: Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Life Cycle Costing (LCC) is the logical counterpart of LCA for the economic assessment. LCC surpasses the purely economic cost calculation by taking into account hidden costs and potentially external costs over the life cycle of the product. It is a very important point that different life-cycle based methods (including Social Life Cycle Assessment) for sustainablity assessment use the same system boundaries.Aim, Scope and Background. The interest in environmental questions has increased enormously during the last decade. Environmental protection has become an issue of strategic importance within the manufacturing industry and many companies are now working in the field of Design for Environment (DFE). The main purpose of DFE is to create products and services for achieving a sustainable society. Designers are widely believed to have a key role in adapting products to a sustainable society and one of the major instruments in the context of Design for Environment is Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). However, product development creates particular challenges for incorporating environmental issues that combine functional and environmental assessment. A natural and important part of product design is to define and analyse the functions of the product. Consequently, the functional unit in LCA is a core issue in DFE. Most recent research in DFE has focused on how to reduce the environmental impact of products throughout their life-cycle by addressing environmental aspects, while little attention has been given to the functionality of the product. Additionally, early product development phases, so called re-think phases, are considered to have the influence on major changes in products in general. These phases have thus the highest potential for changing products and product systems towards a sustainable development. Main Features. This paper discusses an extended functional representation in design for environment methods to evaluate sustainable design solutions, especially in early (re-think) phases of product design. Based on engineering-design science and several case studies, a concept has been developed describing how functional preferences can be visualised in design for environment and product development. In addition, the functional unit in LCA is discussed. The concept is called Functional Profile (FP) and is additionally exemplified in a case study on radio equipment. Discussion. The new functional characterisation concept helps identify functional priorities in design for environment. The Functional Profile is a structured, systematic and creative concept for identifying the necessary functions of a new product. The FP is envisioned to complement existing design for environment methods, not
 to replace them. Instead of being a product-development tool or method, the concept is an approach that increases understanding of inter-reactions between functional characteristics of products and their environmental characteristics, which furthermore facilitates trade-off decisions. One of the objectives behind the concept is to highlight the importance of balancing functional requirements and environmental impacts, presenting both the advantages and disadvantages of the product. Outlook. A second paper will be produced to complement the functional-environmental characterisation concept in early product development phase, presenting the environmental characterisation part and illustrating correlations between the functional and environmental sides.Background. In developing products various requirements have to be integrated including functionality, quality, affordability as well as environmental aspects. Often conflicting requirements have to be fulfilled. Therefore, multi-dimensional decision support approaches are necessary. Methods. Here, one approach is to relate the conflicting requirements to each other. Life Cycle Costing (LCC) has the potential to support the trade-off between some environmental targets and overall affordability targets by including all monetary flows along the product life cycle (going beyond the well-known costs of ownership by integrating also long-term use and end-of-life costs). Those solutions can be identified that (a) have the highest efficiencies (where do we get most environmental improvements per E) and (b) have the highest affordability for the customer along the life cycle. Furthermore, on-costs in the design phase can be justified in terms of future savings either for the customer or for the recycling of the products. These represent real business cases for environmental actions. Three types of environmental business cases can be differentiated. Results and Discussion. This paper presents various examples where LCC is integrated into product design. However, there are a number of open issues in the implementation of LCC within real product development including data availability and uncertainty (future costs/savings), level of discounting, accounting and compensation. Various internal case studies done in the last years showed that already few changes in the costs structure can significantly affect the identified future costs. Recommendation and Outlook. Uncertainties in LCC are higher than in LCA and highest when applied in the stage of product development, i.e. used to support DfE action. As a consequence, the resulting figures can only be seen as directional. Therefore, the use of LCC in Design for Environment cannot be recommended without major restrictions in terms of guidance, experience/training. The linkage between LCC and DfE can either be established via (1) experts supporting design teams or (2) as part of a DfE tool. The DfE tool has to include detailed guidance for interpretation, and its application should be based on a solid training for DfE engineers.Background, Goal and Scope. A complete life cycle assessment (LCA) always requires several itemizations of goal/scope definitions, inventory analysis and impact analysis. This requires the retrieval and collection of: inventory information on all processes with which a product or any part of it comes into either direct or indirect cont
act. As a result, the data required for LCA is vast, uncertain and, therefore, complex. Up until now, unfortunately, and as far as the authors are aware, there has not been much computer-assisted aid available from any of the systems currently used in either academia or industry to support any fife cycle (LC) related data representation, other than the traditional methods of tables, xy-graphs, bar charts, pie charts and various 3-D variants of those which are difficult for humans to interpret. Main Features. Benefiting from the synergy of latest developments in both visualization techniques and computer technology, the authors are able to introduce a new information representation approach based on glyphs. These exploit the human perceptual capability for distinguishing spatial structures and shapes presented in different colors and textures. Within this approach, issues of representing life cycle related information at a glance, filtering out data so as to reduce the information load, and representation of data features, such as uncertainty and estimated errors, are targeted. Results. Advanced information visualization, the process which transforms and maps data to a visual representation, employs the glyphs rendered here to create abstract representations of multi-dimensional data sets. Different parameters describing spatial, geometrical and retinal properties of such glyphs, and defining their position, orientation, shape, color, etc., can be used to encode more information in a comprehensible format, thus allowing multiple values to be encoded in those glyph parameters. The natural function of glyphs, linking (mapped) data within a known context with the attributes that in turn control their visualization, is believed capable of providing sufficient functionality to interactively support designers and LCA experts performing life cycle inventory (LCI) information analysis so that they can operate faster and more efficiently than at present. Conclusions. Within this paper, the first of a small series on efficient information visualization in LCA, the motivation for and essential basic principles of the approach are introduced and discussed. With this technique, the essential characteristics of data, relationships, patterns, trends, etc. can be represented in a much better structured and compact manner, thus rendering them clearer and more meaningful. It is hoped that a continuing interest in this work combined with an improved collaboration with industrial partners will eventually provide the grounds for translating this novel approach into an efficient and reliable tool enhancing applied LCA in practice on a broader base. Outlook. More technical details of the approach and its implementation will be introduced and discussed in the following papers, and examples will be offered demonstrating its application and first experimental translation into practice.Goal, Scope and Background. A number of impact assessment methodologies are available to the LCA practitioner. They differ, and often there is not one obvious choice among them. The question therefore naturally arises: 'Does it make any difference to my conclusions which method I choose?' To investigate this issue, a comparison is performed of three frequently applied life cycle impact assessment methods. Methods. The three life cycle impact assessment methods EDIP97 [1], CML2001 [2] 
and Eco-indicator 99 [3] are compared on their performance through application to the same life cycle inventory from a study of a water-based UV-lacquer. EDIP97 and CML2001 are both midpoint approaches and hence quite similar in their scope and structure, and this allows a comparison during both characterisation and normalisation. The third impact assessment method Eco-indicator 99 is an endpoint method and different in scope and structure from the other two. A detailed comparison can not be done but a comparative analysis of the main contributors to the Eco-indicator 99 results and the weighted and aggregated EDIP97 results is performed. Results and Discussion. Following a translation into common units of the EDIP97 and CML2001 output, differences up to two orders of magnitude are found for some of the indicator results for the impact categories describing toxicity to humans and ecosystems, and there is little similarity in the patterns of major contributors among the two methods. For human toxicity the CML2001 score is dominated by contribution from metals while the EDIP97 score is caused by a solvent and nitrogen oxides. For aquatic ecotoxicity, metals are the main contributors for both methods but while it is vanadium for CML2001, it is strontium for EDIP97. After normalisation, the differences are reduced but still considerable. For the other impact categories, the two methods show only minor differences. The comparison of the main contributors to the Eco-indicator 99 results and the weighted and aggregated EDIP97 results identifies nitrogen oxides as the main contributor for both methods. It is, however, much more dominant for Eco-indicator 99 while the EDIP97 score represents important contributions from a number of different substances, and furthermore, the analysis reveals that the aggregated scores for the two methods come from different impacts. It is thus difficult to extend the findings for these two methods to other inventories. Conclusion. For EDIP97 and CML2001, it mainly matters which method is used if the chemical impacts on human health and ecosystem health are important for the study. For the other impact categories, the differences are minor for these two methodologies. For EDIP97 and Eco-indicator 99, the patterns of most important contributors to the weighted and aggregated impact scores are rather different, and considering the known differences in the underlying framework and models, the results of the two methods may well go in opposite directions for some inventories even if the conclusion is the same for the inventory studied in this paper. Recommendations and Outlook. Particularly for the impact categories representing toxic impacts from chemicals, the study demonstrates the need for more a detailed analysis of the causes underlying the big differences revealed between the methods.Aim and Background. Electronic media are spreading rapidly and some of the services they offer are similar to traditional media. Frequently, credit is given to electronic media for causing less environmental impact, however, looking at it more closely little is known about the comparability of the environmental impact of both kinds of media. Main reasons for this lack of knowledge are difficulties in defining an adequate functional unit for a comparison of usually multifunctional media, as well as problems in gathering large amounts 
of inventory data for complex electronic goods. Objective. Here an LCA case study was conducted for reading or watching the daily news in an online and a printed newspaper as well as on TV. Aim of this study was to find an adequate functional unit as well as to quantify the environmental impact of each of the media, including recommendations for the reduction of their impact. In order to account for the multifunctionality of the investigated media as well as for ISO 14040ff. guidelines for the definition of the functional unit, several functional units were chosen. The selected functional units cover a spectrum of close functional equivalence to an altogether different approach in comparing entire activities. Results. Compared on the basis of an average news item, the internet newspaper causes far more environmental impact than a TV news cast, which, in turn, causes more impact than a cutting of a newspaper. Major contributions to the high environmental impact of the internet newspaper are the manufacturing of the computer as well as operation of the necessary infrastructure for running the internet, in particular operation of the telephone network. Comparing media on the basis of consuming the daily news as a whole leads to less environmental impact for both of the electronic media in relation to a printed newspaper, even if shared amongst several readers. The comparative environmental advantage of the electronic media depends on a set of conditions: 1. No online information is printed. 2. Internet surfing is directed towards specific goals and therefore limited in time. 3. Power consumption is based to a large extent on renewable energy sources. This still holds true for the underlying national electricity mix of Switzerland with a high share of hydropower. A comparison of the average per capita time of watching TV with surfing in the internet and average paper consumption of free and bought print products also shows that most of the environmental impact results from print products. Interpretation. Summarising the previously shown results, different perspectives on media and, with it, different functional units lead - not surprisingly - to different results. Relations between the environmental impact of the three media change between approaches. A final conclusion on a qualitative level is drawn. The first functional unit stands for close functional equivalence, however, itdoes not resemble options of the consumer in real life. The cuttings of a newspaper cannot be bought as such and the consumer is normally not interested in a single news item. The second functional unit is more of a representation of real life choices and is a typical example of a consumer's choice that frequently has to decide between options which are not exactly functionally equivalent. Finally, the last approach, based on entire activities, supports the result of the previous approach. Perspective. The case study has shown that a comparison of multifunctional products or services excludes relevant environmental aspects, if functional equivalence is chosen as the unique reference unit. Thus, it is recommended to apply several approaches in order to do justice to the multifunctionality of the investigated products or services. ISO/TR 14049, with its concept of user acceptance, offers such a possibility to compare products or services which are still considered equiv
alent by the user.Goal, Scope and Background. There is a competition between wet and thermal routes for phosphate fertilizers manufacture. In the Brazilian case, the thermal route is represented by thermophosphate. This fertilizer is considered the most adequate one for Brazilian agricultural conditions; its main restriction is the intensive consumption of energy necessary for its production. The wet route uses sulfuric acid to directly produce the single superphosphate (SSP) or the intermediate phosphoric acid, which will be used to result in triple superphosphate (TSP) and ammonium phosphate production. The main restriction of the wet route is the large amount of phosphogypsum generated in phosphoric acid production. Envisaged is an environmental comparison of both routes using LCA methodology. This paper presents the LCA for SSP production. The goal of the study is to establish the Environmental Profile of this fertilizer. Eight impact categories were selected for the study. The system boundaries was defined for a 'cradle to gate' approach, including extraction of natural resources, intermediate products, and production. The SSP System. The SSP system (single superphosphate) comprises the stages of mining and concentration of the phosphate rock, elemental sulfur extraction, production of sulfuric acid, and manufacture of single superphosphate. SSP LCI. The LCI was performed considering the production of 1.0 ton of SSP (single superphosphate) as a Functional Unit. The data collected were developed for different producing companies, all of them located in the same regional area. Allocation criteria of energy and mass were applied to the production of sulfuric acid and manufacture of single superphosphate. The transportation step included either the transport of the mined phosphated rock to the concentration plant or the transport of the phosphate concentrate to the SSP unit. Conclusion, Recommendation and Perspective. The accomplishment of an LCA to SSP production identified the GWP and EP as its meaningful environmental impacts. In reference to global warming, the transportation step was the greatest contributor agent, while the losses of PO4- from the SSP manufacturing were the main cause of ER The most important contribution in terms of water consumption was observed in the concentration step. Finally, the self sufficiency of the sulfuric acid production in energetic terms must be highlighted. The knowledge of the environmental profile of fertilizers is necessary to support LCA studies of agricultural products, a relevant raw material source for many industrial sectors. The method used here may be important for modelling other LCA fertilizer studies. As most of the agricultural raw materials are transferred among different countries, comparisons of the environmental profiles of fertilizers in developed and developing countries are needed.Background, Goal and Scope. For the life cycle assessment (LCA) tool to provide maximum benefit for decision makers, the uncertainty of its results should be reported. Several methods for assessing uncertainty have been developed, but despite recent efforts, there remains disagreement about their merits. Objectives. The objectives of the study were to review several assessment methods for estimating numerical and qualitative uncertainty of impact scores and recommend an appropriate uncertainty assessm
ent scheme. The methods review has been conducted on the basis of an LCA case study regarding the comparison of the use of either brown or black coals in Australian electricity generation. Results and Discussion. Each assessment method indicated greater uncertainty in the impact scores calculated for black coal use than for brown coal use. Due to overlap of the uncertainty ranges in calculated impact scores neither of the coals could be regarded environmentally preferred. Conclusions. Both qualitative and quantitative methods were found to provide useful information about the uncertainty of calculated impact scores for the case study. Methods that combine qualitative and quantitative uncertainty provided no additional benefits, and obscured much of the information gained from using qualitative methods. Recommendation and Outlook. It is recommended that LCA results should include separate numerical (using Monte-Carlo simulation) and qualitative uncertainty assessments. When the ranges of calculated impact scores for compared options overlap, the normalised difference method is recommended.Goal, Scope and Background. Performing a life cycle assessment (LCA) has been a rather resource and time-consuming business. The method of data collection may be problematic, and the quality of the final results can be influenced by the reliability of the data. Therefore, it is helpful to utilize an on-line data gathering system to save time and to improve the reliability of the collected raw data. Main Features. We have developed an LCA software package for a steel company. The software consists of two major parts: an LCA tool kit and an interface program. The LCA tool kit is a user interface for handling an LCA database server. It has powerful functions to execute systematic analysis, not only for the amount of energy and raw materials, but also for the volume of pollutants generated by each component. The latter is an interface program between a data handling system and an on-line data gathering system. This interface program is linked with three enterprise database systems, such as enterprise resource planning (ERP), an environmental management system (EMS) and an energy server system (ESS). In this study, we compared three different ways of performing LCA. Two of them are on-line methods, and another is manual. Results and Discussion. Among the three methods, the best method was on-line LCA linked with ERP, EMS and ESS. Case studies in steel works have shown that the current method is superior to manual data gathering in terms of time and cost (man-month) savings, data reliability and other applications. Results of life cycle inventory and life cycle impact assessment for steel products have shown monthly fluctuations due to fuel usage ratio, which have not been detected before using manual data gathering. Conclusions. An LCA can be performed quickly, if one is to employ the on-line data gathering system we have developed. The system consists of an LCA software package including the interface program and LCA tool kit, and the enterprise database systems. Case studies for LCA with the on-line system have shown superior performance to that carried out using the manual data entry method. Recommendations and Perspective. This system enables an enterprise to take Type III and conduct benchmarking to other companies or societies within a short time. Also, 
combining this tool with an environmental performance evaluation or accounting system can allow one to achieve a more progressive environmental management.Aim and Background. Many analytical tools have been developed to support the implementation of sustainable development. Principal among these are the ones that are based on physical aspects such as life cycle assessment (LCA), while others focus on non-physical aspects, namely on monetary concepts, such as life cycle costing and total cost assessment. Each kind of tool is designed to assess a specific aspect (environmental or economic) of the entire life of a good or a service. Unfortunately, even if the literature clearly states the advantage of combining these tools, case studies with global conclusions considering both aspects are still rare. Most often, studies conclude separately on each aspect; environmental impact and cost assessment. Definitions. The already published concept of Return on Environment (ROE), inspired from return on investment, is a first step in the right direction for combining these tools and hence, achieving better alternative comparisons. Considering some limitations as to the ease with which it compares two or more similar goods, two new indexes are suggested here. The first one, called the Environmental Return (ER), focuses only on environmental aspects. It allows the comparison on an environmental basis of several goods or services fulfilling the same function. The second definition, called the Econo-Environmental Return (EER), is an index created by the combination of the environmental impact assessment results (such as an LCIA) and those from an economic assessment (such as an LCC or a TCA). From a simple decision rule, a decision-maker can compare several goods on both environmental and economic aspects. Discussion and Conclusion. A simplified case study is used to present a numerical application of these two definitions and to interpret their different results and conclusions. Two different types of broadloom carpet, PET (recycled polyester) and nylon, are compared. When they are only compared on an LCIA basis, the PET carpet is preferred over the nylon one, while the opposite is true when they are compared on both economic aspect and environmental impact bases. The major advantage of the Econo-Environmental Return is that two goods can be compared without requiring a specific industrial sector reference value.Aim, Scope and Background. The data-intensive nature of life cycle assessment (LCA), even for non-complex products, quickly leads to the utilization of various methods of representing the data in forms other than written characters. Up until now, traditional representations of life cycle inventory (LCI) data and environmental impact analysis (EIA) results have usually been based on 2D and 3D variants of simple tables, bar charts, pie charts and x/y graphs. However, these representation methods do not sufficiently address aspects such as representation of life cycle inventory information at a glance, filtering out data while summarizing the filtered data (so as to reduce the information load), and representation of data errors and uncertainty. Main Features. This new information representation approach with its glyph-based visualization method addresses the specific problems outlined above, encountered when analyzing LCA and EIA related informatio
n. In particular, support for multi-dimensional information representation, reduction of information load, and explicit data feature propagation are provided on an interactive, computer-aided basis. Results. Three-dimensional, interactive geometric objects, so called OM-glyphs, were used in the visualization method introduced, to represent LCA-related information in a multi-dimensional information space. This representation is defined by control parameters, which in turn represent spatial, geometric and retinal properties of glyphs and glyph formations. All relevant analysis scenarios allowed and valid can be visualized. These consist of combinations of items for the material and energy inventories, environmental items, life cycle phases and products, or their parts and components. Individual visualization scenarios, once computed and rendered on a computer screen, can then interactively be modified in terms of visual viewpoint, size, spatial location and detail of data represented, as needed. This helps to increase speed, efficiency and quality of the assessment performance, while at the same time considerably reducing mental load due to the more structured manner in which information is represented to the human expert. Conclusions. The previous paper in this series discussed the motivation for a new approach to efficient information visualization in LCA and introduced the essential basic principles. This second paper offers more insight into and discussion on technical details and the framework developed. To provide a means for better understanding the visualization method presented, examples have been given. The main purpose of the examples, as already indicated, is to demonstrate and make transparent the mapping of LCA related data and their contexts to glyph parameters. Those glyph parameters, in turn, are used to generate a novel form of sophisticated information representation which is transparent, clear and compact, features which cannot be achieved with any traditional representation scheme. Outlook. Final technical details of this approach and its framework will be presented and discussed in the next paper. Theoretical and practical issues related to the application of this visualization method to the computed life cycle inventory data of an actual industrial product will also be discussed in this next paper.Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) frequently do not contribute to sustainable development because product alternatives with a truly low environmental burden are not included in the assessment. As a result, environmentally-friendly alternatives are not uncovered, although much effort has been put into collecting inventory data and making an impact assessment. Part of this problem is caused by the defensive use of LCAs. Companies eager to show that their product is not too bad for the environment prefer to compare their product with alternatives that are not very promising in an environmental sense. To (mis)use LCAs in this way is quite easy, because the LCA methodology and handbooks provide few guidelines and little advice on how to generate and select adequate alternatives. An analysis of the problems related to the alternatives is given using insights drawn from the field of policy analysis - a field in which methodological rules for the generation of alternatives in policy studies have been developed - ecodesign and the LCA di
scipline, and measures to reduce the problems are developed. Explicating the different steps in the determination of alternatives in the goal and scope formulation stage of an LCA process, and the development of a toolbox for this activity, would certainly improve the quality of the selection of alternatives. Furthermore, involving stakeholders and a group of experts in the generation and selection process will increase the variety and relevance of alternatives, and the social support for alternatives.Goal Scope and Background. Qualitative valuation methods carefully try to avoid an aggregation across impact categories. However, such an aggregation often helps in obtaining a clear result for the valuation (which product scores better?). This article presents a new valuation method that uses an iterative approach. The application is demonstrated by the help of a case study for electric motors in trains. Methods / Main Features. The approach combines two existing, unique valuation methods described earlier in literature, which both are of a rather non-aggregating nature, in line with ISO requirements, and were designed to be performed by LCA experts. The method is implemented in a computer software. Besides constants used within the method, the software needs as input solely indicator values from the Impact Assessment. Results and Discussion. The iterative nature of these methods itself, and especially the combination of these methods, helps in achieving a valuation result for the LCA with not more subjective and aggregating elements than necessary. Subjective elements are clearly separated from others. The algorithm seems highly sensitive to changes in impact categories regarded as important ones. The implementation in software greatly eases the application of the method by transferring routine work from LCA experts to a machine. It ensures a reproducible result and prevents erroneous steps in a rather complicated valuation procedure. It further helps in hiding the complexity of the method from the user. Conclusion. The approach of combining valuation methods in LCAs seems a fruitful one, and shows benefits when implemented in computer software, in terms of usability, and in terms of a more reproducible application. Care has to be taken to make sure users know what they do when performing an automated valuation procedure. Outlook. We see three ways for extending the approach, namely: (i) become part of a toolbox of different valuation procedures; (ii) explicitly cope with uncertainty, and (iii) include different values for normalisation, in different regions worldwide. The software will be made available also in a stand alone version.Goal, Scope and Background. Assessing future energy and transport systems is of major importance for providing timely information for decision makers. In the discussion of technology options, fuel cells are often portrayed as attractive options for power plants and automotive applications. However, when analysing these systems, the LCA analyst is confronted with methodological problems, particularly with data gaps and the requirement of an anticipation of future developments. This series of two papers aims at providing a methodological framework for assessing future energy and transport systems (Part 1) and applies this to the two major application areas of fuel cells (Part 2). Methods. To allow the LCA of fut
ure energy and transport systems forecasting tools like, amongst others, cost estimation methods and process simulation of systems are investigated with respect to the applicability in LCAs of future systems (Part 1). The manufacturing process of an SOFC stack is used as an illustration for the forecasting procedure. In Part 2, detailed LCAs of fuel cell power plants and power trains are carried out including fuel (hydrogen, methanol, gasoline, diesel and natural gas) and energy converter production. To compare it with competing technologies, internal combustion engines (automotive applications) and reciprocating engines, gas turbines and combined cycle plants (stationary applications) are analysed as well. Results and Discussion. Principally, the investigated forecasting methods are suitable for future energy system assessment. The selection of the best method depends on different factors such as required ressources, quality of the results and flexibility. In particular, the time horizon of the investigation determines which forecasting tool may be applied. Environmentally relevant process steps exhibiting a significant time dependency shall always be investigated using different independent forecasting tools to ensure stability of the results. The results of the LCA (Part 2) underline that principally, fuel cells offer advantages in the impact categories which are typically dominated by pollutant emissions, such as acidification and eutrophication, whereas for global warming and primary energy demand, the situation depends on a set of parameters such as driving cycle and fuel economy ratio in mobile applications and thermal/total efficiencies in stationary applications. For the latter impact categories, the choice of the primary energy carrier for fuel production (renewable or fossil) dominates the impact reduction, With increasing efficiency and improving emission performance of the conventional systems, the competition regarding all impact categories in both mobile and stationary applications is getting even stronger. The production of the fuel cell system is of low overall significance in stationary applications, whereas in automotive applications, the production of the fuel cell power train and required materials leads to increased impacts compared to internal combustion engines and thus reduces the achievable environmental impact reduction. Recommendations and Perspectives. The rapid technological and energy economic development will bring further advances for both fuel cells and conventional energy converters. Therefore, LCAs at such an early stage of the market development can only be considered preliminary. It is an essential requirement to accompany the ongoing research and development with iterative LCAs, constantly pointing at environmental hot spots and bottlenecks.Goal, Scope and Background. The goal of this paper is to present the modeling of life cycle inventory (LCI) for electric energy production and delivery in Brazil for the reference year 2000 by application of ISO 14040. Site specific data along with sector production data have been combined to construct an energy production model, which has been applied to emissions estimation. Background-data of all the inputs and outputs from the system have been inventoried as follows: gross electric energy generation, installed nameplate capacity, flooded area, losses, emission
s to air / water, process waste, used fuel, efficiency and land use. Main Features. In Brazil, electricity is supplied to the various regions by an interconnected system composed of 418 electric companies, consisting of 389 hydraulic power plants and 29 thermal power stations. Due to this enormous number of companies, life cycle inventory for the electricity grid mix was developed on the basis of the following hierarchy: information received from companies (15), data from Brazilian Industrial Information System for the energy Sector (SIESE) and Brazilian Ministries. The functional unit was 1,000 MJ (278 kWh) of electricity distributed to electricity users. The main emissions from power stations, as well as those from fuel production, were investigated. The hydraulic process was not considered emission-free - a model was proposed where emissions of renewable CO2 and CH4 (hydro) are attributed to the degradation of plants submerged in the reservoir areas. Result. The production and distribution of 1,000 MJ of electricity by the interconnected system in Brazil requires approx. 1,600 MJ of process energy, 230 kg of water (evaporated at thermal plants), 116 m(3) of waterflow through the turbines, 13 kg of coal, 5 kg of biotic reserves and 0.25 m(2) a of land use. Emissions related to the 1,000 MJ electricity distributed were 18 kg of non-renewable CO2 17 kg of renewable CO2, 540 g of CH4, 575 g of NOx, 116 g of SO2, 149 g of CO2 among others. Thermal power stations are the main contributors to these emissions, except for CH4 and renewable CO2 being contributions from coal production and hydraulic power plants, respectively. Conclusions. In spite of considering the emissions of CO2 and CH4 by the submerged plants in the flooded area of dams in hydropower stations, it has been shown that electric energy production is a very clean process due to the characteristics of the electric energy production in Brazil - 93.5% hydraulic. This means 1,000 MJ of delivered electricity produces approx. 34 kg of CO2, being 18 kg (53%) of non-renewable CO2 emitted by fossil fuel burning at thermal power plants that participate with only 6.5% of the electric energy production in Brazil. This was the first tentative model to express electric energy generation and distribution in Brazil in terms of LCA. In future, a more detailed study should be made in order to improve this model. Outlook. A complementary paper will be produced in which future scenarios of the Brazilian electricity grid mix will be discussed, including possible alternatives to minimize the environmental impacts of hydropower plants.Goal, Scope and Background. In this article, the Life Cycle Impact Assessment of the average passenger vehicle of the Netherlands is performed, with emphasis on the current dismantling and recycling practice in this country. From calculations on recovery rates of the several material streams from ELV (End-of-Live Vehicle) recycling, it seems that attaining the European ELV legislation recycling targets (Directive 2000/53/EC 2000) is very difficult, even for countries with advanced collection and recycling infrastructures such as the Netherlands. An LCA of the current average passenger vehicle of the Netherlands, including a detailed modelling of the recovery and recycling should form a sound basis for comparison with alternative automotive life cycle designs and legislat
ion efforts. Model and System Definition. An average passenger vehicle is defined, having average weight and material composition. A cradle to grave approach is taken, including all relevant upstream processes for the production of materials and fuels, and the return of the recycled materials to the material cycles in the EOL (End-of-Life) phase. A particularity of this model is the detailed description of the Dutch collection and recycling infrastructure, with current data for the shredding, separation and metallurgical recycling processes (ARN 2000, Barkhof 1998, Chapman 1983, Pilchert et al. 1994, Worrel et al. 1992). Results and Discussion. According to the Eco-indicator 99 (EI99) (Ministerie van V.R.O.M 1999), the largest environmental impact of the passenger vehicle's life cycle occurs in the use phase over 90% -, due to the combustion and depletion of fossil fuels. This is in agreement of previous studies (Kasai 2000, Kanesaki 2000). Also in the other life cycle phases, the use of fossil fuels is the dominant impact, even for the production phase. Resource depletion due to the use of the materials employed in the vehicle causes a comparatively lower environmental impact, namely due to the high recovery rate and efficiency of the metallurgical recycling, that balances for about 30% the total impacts of the materials production and use. NOx emission was one of the smallest emissions to air in quantity, but was responsible for 36% of the impact of the life cycle, while CO2 was the largest emission to air but caused only 6% of the environmental impact. Conclusion and Recommendation. Although there is a growing awareness and concern on increasing the recyclability of vehicles, the use phase still has the largest environmental impact of the vehicle's life cycle. A life cycle assessment can be a Sound basis to evaluate and compare design alternatives to increase the sustainabiliry of passenger vehicles. The ASR (Automotive shredder residue) is currently the greatest concern with regard to the recovery targets. It is a large amount of materials (about 32 wt.%), difficult and costly to recycle, and thermal recovery is limited to a maximum of lSwt.% in 1015 by the European ELV legislation. joint efforts from the automotive industry and legislative institutions are required to find a sensible solution. LCA can be a useful tool to support legislative decisions, as purely weight-based recovery definitions are not adequate to evaluate the sustainability of the automobile life cycle.The new IMPACT 2002+ life cycle impact assessment methodology proposes a feasible implementation of a combined midpoint/ damage approach, linking all types of life cycle inventory results (elementary flows and other interventions) via 14 midpoint categories to four damage categories. For IMPACT 2002+, new concepts and methods have been developed, especially for the comparative assessment of human toxicity and ecotoxicity. Human Damage Factors are calculated for carcinogens and non-carcinogens, employing intake fractions, best estimates of dose-response slope factors, as well as severities. The transfer of contaminants into the human food is no more based on consumption surveys, but accounts for agricultural and livestock production levels. Indoor and outdoor air emissions can be compared and the intermittent character of rainfall is considered. Both human toxicity and
 ecotoxicity effect factors are based on mean responses rather than on conservative assumptions. Other midpoint categories are adapted from existing characterizing methods (Eco-indicator 99 and CML 2002). All midpoint scores are expressed in units of a reference substance and related to the four damage categories human health, ecosystem quality, climate change, and resources. Normalization can be performed either at midpoint or at damage level. The IMPACT 2002+ method presently provides characterization factors for almost 1500 different LCI-results, which can be downloaded at http://www.epfl.ch/impactAim, Scope and Background. When materials are recycled they are made available for use for several future life cycles and can therefore replace virgin material more than just once. In order to analyse the optimal waste management system for a given material, the authors have analysed the material flows in a life cycle perspective. It is important to distinguish this approach for material flow analysis for a given material from life cycle analysis of products. A product life cycle analysis analyses the product system from cradle to grave, but uses some form of allocation in order to separate the life cycle of one product from another in cases where component materials are recycled. This paper does not address allocation of burdens between different product systems, but rather focuses on methodology for decision making for waste management systems where the optimal waste management system for a given material is analysed. The focus here is the flow of the given material from cradle (raw material extraction) to grave (the material, or its inherent energy, is no longer available for use). The limitation on the number of times materials can be recycled is set by either the recycling rate, or the technical properties of the recycled material. Main Features. This article describes a mathematical geometric progression approach that can be used to expand the system boundaries and allow for recycling a given number of times. Case studies for polyethylene and paperboard are used to illustrate the importance of including these aspects when part of the Goal and Scope for the LCA study is to identify which waste management treatment options are best for a given material. The results and discussion examine the different conclusions that can be reached about which waste management option is most environmentally beneficial when the higher burdens and benefits of recycling several times are taken into account. Results. In order to assess the complete picture of the burdens and benefits arising from recycling the system boundaries must be expanded to allow for recycling many times. A mathematical geometric progression approach manages to take into account the higher burdens and benefits arising from recycling several times. If one compares different waste management systems, e.g. energy recovery with recycling, without expanding the system to include the complete effects of material recycling one can reach a different conclusion about which waste management option is preferred. Conclusions. When the purpose of the study is to compare different waste management options, it is important that the system boundaries are expanded in order to include several recycling loops where this is a physical reality. The equations given in this article can be used to include th
ese recycling loops. The error introduced by not expanding the system boundaries can be significant. This error can be large enough to change the conclusions of a comparative study, such that material recycling followed by incineration is a much better option than waste incineration directly. Recommendations and Outlook. When comparing waste management solutions, where material recycling is a feasible option, it is important to include the relevant number of recycling loops to ensure that the benefits of material recycling are not underestimated. The methodology presented in this article should be used in future comparative studies for strategic decision-making for waste management. The approach should not be used for LCAs for product systems without due care, as this could lead to double counting of the benefits of recycling (depending on the goal and scope of the analysis). For materials where the material cycle is more of a closed loop and one cannot truly say that recycled materials replace virgin materials, a more sophisticated approach will be required, taking into account the fact that recycled materials will only replace a certain proportion of virgin materials.Goal, Scope, and Background. Despite documentation of product lifetime, performance, and system dependency issues, requirements for specifying functional units and reference flows in LCA have not been developed. The ISO standards simply note that selection between functions is dependent on the goals and scope of the study, that the functional unit must be clearly defined and measurable, and that the reference flows are the amount of product necessary per functional unit. The goal of this work is to suggest and demonstrate the use a set of requirements for specifying the functional unit and reference flows for comparative LCAs. Methods. The suggested requirements were developed to address the lifetime, performance, and system dependency issues described in LCA literature and to ensure adequate information is available for the interpretation of results. Also, well developed methods for conceptual design were used to formulate aspects of the requirements to improve comparability of alternatives. A case study demonstrates the use of the requirements in materials selection for aircraft design. In the case study, functional units are specified for the component being designed and for the aircraft. Similarly, reference flows for the component, component interfaces, and the aircraft are quantified based on parametric and linear estimation models. Finally, an interpretation of data quality, uncertainty, assumptions, and limitations are presented. Results and Discussion. The requirements are shown to be particularly important when the product be assessed operates as part of a larger system and when there are performance differences among alternatives. The case study illustrates the importance of including consideration of system and interface materials and energy flows in the comparison of aircraft components. Specifically, because the mass of interface materials is estimated as more than the difference in subsystem masses, differences in the variable mass of the aircraft and the lifetime fuel consumption are accounted for in the reference flows. Conclusions. Some practitioners have recognized difficulties in accounting for product lifetime, performance, and system dependencies in LC
A, even though a set of requirements has not been included in literature or in the ISO standards. The suggested requirements presented in this work were found to be useful in accounting for differences in materials and energy flows and in providing a transparent presentation, assessment, and interpretation of reference flows and ultimately in the LCA results. Recommendations and Outlook. This work is significant because the specification of the functional unit and the definition of the reference flows dictate the materials and processes included in the LCA. Future work is needed to test the general applicability of the suggested requirements to a wide variety of product systems.Background, Goal and Scope. System expansion is a method used to avoid co-product allocation. Up to this point in time it has seldom been used in LCA studies of food products, although food production systems often are characterised by closely interlinked sub-systems. One of the most important allocation problems that occurs in LCAs of agricultural products is the question of how to handle the co-product beef from milk production since almost half of the beef production in the EU is derived from co-products from the dairy sector. The purpose of this paper is to compare different methods of handling co-products when dividing the environmental burden of the milk production system between milk and the co-products meat and surplus calves. Main Features. This article presents results from an LCA of organic milk production in which different methods of handling the co-products are examined. The comparison of different methods of co-product handling is based on a Swedish LCA case study of milk production where economic allocation between milk and meat was initially used. Allocation of the co-products meat and surplus calves was avoided by expanding the milk system. LCA data were collected from another case study where the alternative way of producing meat was analysed, i.e. using a beef cow that produces one calf per annum to be raised for one and a half year. The LCA of beef production was included in the milk system. A discussion is conducted focussing on the importance of modelling and analysing milk and beef production in an integrated way when foreseeing and planning the environmental consequences of manipulating milk and beef production systems. Results. This study shows that economic allocation between milk and beef favours the product beef. When system expansion is performed, the environmental benefits of milk production due to its co-products of surplus calves and meat become obvious. This is especially connected to the impact categories that describe the potential environmental burden of biogenic emissions such as methane and ammonia and nitrogen losses due to land use and its fertilising. The reason for this is that beef production in combination with milk can be carried out with fewer animals than in sole beef production systems. Conclusion, Recommendation and Perspective. Milk and beef production systems are closely connected. Changes in milk production systems will cause alterations in beef production systems. it is concluded that in prospective LCA studies, system expansion should be performed to obtain adequate information of the environmental consequences of manipulating production systems that are interlinked to each other.Goal, Scope and Background. An 
extensive life cycle inventory of the maintenance of floor coverings has been carried out for the professional cleaning sector in Sweden. Different maintenance methods for linoleum and PVC were inventoried. The objective has been to develop a model for estimating the resource use in the Swedish professional floor cleaning and maintenance sector. Several important actors involved in the Swedish professional cleaning sector participated in the inventory. An agreement could be reached for a limited number of methods and products. The result can be regarded as representative for the maintenance of linoleum and PVC in respect to professional maintenance in Sweden. Methods, Results and Discussion. The maintenance was divided into two different types: periodical and frequent maintenance. It showed that 36 maintenance systems were relevant (each system is a combination of periodical and frequent maintenance) and that the expected impacts from maintenance could be found through an inventor), of these 36 systems. The resource use for each system was inventoried and pertaining LCI data was collected. However, it showed that the resource use for the maintenance systems could not be quantified without estimating three so called 'application-specific context parameters', which were not depending on the maintenance system but related to the specific type of premises. The three parameters were: the frequency of the periodical maintenance (P); the frequency of the frequent maintenance (P), and; the estimated service life (L) of the floor covering. The prediction of a specific resource use for maintenance of a specific floor covering could thereby not be carried out without the knowledge of the three application-specific parameters. However, all collected data were supplied to a specifically developed calculation program, which made it possible to estimate the impact from the 36 maintenance systems for different choices of estimated service life and maintenance intervals for the periodical and frequent maintenance. Approximately 1300 different scenarios were provided, using different values for F, P and L, respectively, and compared in order to answer several questions of concern to the professional cleaning sector in Sweden. Conclusions. Some of the most important conclusions generated from the scenarios were: The impacts from maintenance proved to be significant compared to the impacts from the floor. In several cases, wax-based systems turned out to be preferable to polish systems. However, the result is sensitive to the chosen cleaning method. When polish systems are chosen, the choice of floor covering may influence the usage phase in a significant way. Recommendation and Outlook. A framework has been provided as a base for further development. Possibly, the data could be improved and supplied with data of other products and materials. Even other types of floor coverings may be considered. The focus has primarily been on energy use and emission of chemicals recorded as dry substance. It is desirable with a development of a method for quantitative assessment of the actual chemicals.Goal, Scope and Background. Assessing future energy and transport systems is of major importance for providing timely information for decision makers. In the discussion of technology options, fuel cells are often portrayed as attractive options for power plants and automotiv
e applications. However, when analysing these systems, the LCA analyst is confronted with methodological problems, particularly with data gaps and the requirement of forecasting and anticipation of future developments. This series of two papers aims at providing a methodological framework for assessing future energy and transport systems (Part 1) and applies this to the two major application areas of fuel cells (Part 2). Methods. To allow the LCA of future energy and transport systems, forecasting tools like, amongst others, cost estimation methods and process simulation of systems are investigated with respect to the applicability in LCAs of future systems (Part 1). The manufacturing process of an SOFC stack is used as an illustration for the forecasting procedure. In Part 2, detailed LCAs of fuel cell power plants and power trains are carried out including fuel (hydrogen, methanol, gasoline, diesel and natural gas) and energy converter production. To compare it with competing technologies, internal combustion engines (automotive applications) and reciprocating engines, gas turbines and combined cycle plants (stationary applications) are also analysed. Results and Discussion. Principally, the investigated forecasting methods are suitable for future energy system assessment. The selection of the best method depends on different factors such as required ressources, quality of the results and flexibility. In particular, the time horizon of the investigation determines which forecasting tool may be applied. Environmentally relevant process steps exhibiting a significant time dependency shall always be investigated using different independent forecasting tools to ensure stability of the results. The results of the LCA underline that, in general, fuel cells offer advantages in the impact categories usually dominated by pollutant emissions, such as acidification and eutrophication, whereas for global warming and primary energy demand, the situation depends on a set of parameters such as driving cycle and fuel economy ratio in mobile applications and thermal/total efficiencies in stationary applications. For the latter impact categories, the choice of the primary energy carrier for fuel production (renewable or fossil) dominates the impact reduction. With increasing efficiency and improving emission performance of the conventional systems, the competition in both mobile and stationary applications is getting even stronger. The production of the fuel cell system is of low overall significance in stationary applications, whereas in vehicles, the lower life-time of the vehicle leads to a much higher significance of the power train production. Recommendations and Perspectives. In future, rapid technological and energy economic development will bring further advances for both fuel cells and conventional energy converters. Therefore, LCAs at such an early stage of the market development can only be considered preliminary. It is an essential requirement to accompany the ongoing research and development with iterative LCAs, constantly pointing at environmental hot spots and bottlenecks.The subcommittee for Life Cycle Assessment of the German Association of the Automotive Industry (Verband der Automobilindustrie - VDA) developed a Data Collection Format for Life Cycle Assessment which has been adopted by the VDA Environmental Management Committee, repres
enting not only the German automobile manufacturers, but also their development partners, the suppliers, and manufacturers of trailers, body superstructures and containers. This paper introduces the background and some main aspects of the VDA LCA data collection format. All documents including a manual, a checklist and the data collection format as such can be downloaded from the VDA website (http://www.vda.de/ en/vda/intern/organisation/abteilungen/umwelt_04.html).Great efforts have recently resulted in increasing the environmental performance of industrial products. However, to obtain more sustainable solutions, environmental properties must meet customer requirements. This paper introduces a novel approach for identifying environmental improvement options by taking into account customer preferences. The Life Cycle Assessment methodology is applied to evaluate the environmental pro le of a product, using eco-Indicator99 as the impact assessment method. A fuzzy approach based on the House of Quality in the Quality Function Deployment methodology provides a more quantitative method for evaluating the imprecision of the customer preferences. Experimental membership functions have been obtained directly from users and design team members through an opinion poll. The proposed methodology has been applied to identify environmental improvement options by taking into account customer opinions of an office table and identifying three product components where the environmental performance of the table could be improved.In this paper, the Life Cycle Assessment.(LCA) methodology is applied to Portuguese printing and writing paper in order to compare the environmental impact of the use of two kinds of fuels (heavy fuel oil and natural gas) in the pulp and paper production processes. The results of inventory analysis and impact assessment show that the pulp and paper production processes play an important role in almost all of the analysed parameters, which do not always result in an important contribution to the corresponding impact categories. The substitution of heavy fuel oil by natural gas in the pulp and paper production processes seems to be environmentally positive. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The life cycle design (LCD) framework for enhancing design analysis and decision making is demonstrated through a collaborative effort between the University of Michigan, a cross functional team at Ford, and the US Environmental Protection Agency. The LCD framework was used to evaluate three air intake manifold designs: a sand cast aluminum, brazed aluminum tubular, and nylon composite. Life cycle inventory, life cycle cost and product/process performance analyses highlighted significant tradeoffs among alternative manifolds, with respect to system design requirements. The life cycle inventory indicated that the sand-cast aluminum manifold consumed the most life cycle energy (1798 MJ) compared to the tubular brazed,aluminium (1131 MJ) and nylon composite (928 MJ) manifolds. The cast aluminum manifold generated the least life cycle solid waste of 218 kg per manifold, whereas the brazed aluminum tubular and nylon composite manifolds generated comparable quantities of 418 kg and 391 kg, respectively. Material production accounted for 70% of the total life cycle solid waste for the brazed tubular manifold, while auto shredder residue 
was responsible for half the total waste for the nylon composite design. The life cycle cost analysis estimated Ford manufacturing costs, customer gasoline costs, and end-of-life management costs. The nylon composite manifold had the highest estimated manufacturing costs but the least use phase gasoline costs. Significant end-of-life management revenues from aluminum recycling would accrue to Ford under automobile take back legislation. A total of 20 performance requirements were used to evaluate each design alternative. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The objective of this study was to analyse the environmental impact of future supply chains for dairy products. A scenario technique was chosen because scenarios can yield information about the environmental consequences of certain lines of action or developments in a system. To quantify the effects of future systems, a mathematical model of the milk supply chain was constructed and used to simulate possible scenarios. The model was based mainly on life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. The results show that any consideration of the environmental effects of the milk supply chain must consider the entire chain. The amount of packaging materials used is an important factor, as is the transportation of the dairy products to households. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In the present study, the application of life cycle assessment (LCA) for the comparison of two egg packages, from polystyrene and recycled paper, is presented. The input and output streams of mass and energy are examined and the environmental impacts associated with the two systems are analyzed. The application of LCA by using EcoIndicator 95 has made possible the comparison of the environmental impacts of two egg packages. The results of this LCA study are discussed and reveal that the PS packages contribute more to acidification potential, winter and summer smog, while recycled paper egg packages contribute more to heavy metal and carcinogenic substances impact. Nevertheless, it seems that paper eggcups have less environmental impact than the polystyrene ones with the assumption that the accuracy of the results is confined by the credibility of European databases used for primary data. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This Australian study presents the findings of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) that examined whether a re-use and recycle strategy for a plastic-based packaging that substantially reduces the quantity of waste to landfill would also reduce the overall environmental burden. The resources and environmental effects assessed over the life of each of the packagings included fossil fuel consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and photochemical oxidant precursors. The results demonstrate that recycle and reuse strategies for plastic-based products can yield significant environmental benefits. The study also includes some interesting findings regarding the relative contributions of transportation and construction energy, and the potential benefits of adjusting the impact assessment results to take into account the spatial variation in the significance of some environmental effects. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Normalisation provides a measure of the relative contribution from a product system to one or more environmental problems. Total yearly emis
sions for a reference year in a reference region are normally used to calculate normalisation figures. This paper provides up-to-date normalisation figures for the Netherlands in 1997/1998, Western Europe in 1995 and the world in 1990 and 1995. Impact categories considered were depletion of abiotic resources, land competition, global warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, acidification, eutrophication, photochemical ozone formation, radiation and toxicity. In all cases, a limited set of emissions or extractions are dominant contributors to the normalisation scores. Although much effort was spent on collecting emissions data and characterisation factors, particularly normalisation scores for radiation and toxicity remain considerably uncertain. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.In a life cycle assessment (LCA) study, the identification and quantification of the inputs and outputs of unit processes or gate-to-gate modules are essential. In general, however, many chemical industries are composed of very complex systems with internally recurring unit processes where the upstream input to a unit process may include the downstream output from a latter unit process. Therefore, it is rather difficult to identify and quantify the inputs/outputs for those internally recurring unit processes, respectively, for life cycle inventory analysis purposes. In this study, several calculation methods which are applicable to complex systems with internally recurring unit processes are proposed as follows: (1) Determination of the inputs/outputs associated with each unit process by using simultaneous equations. In this proposal, any parameter linked to an upstream process is treated as a 'variable' and the set of other parameters is considered to be a 'constant'. (2) Determination of the inputs/outputs by using appropriate cut-off criteria based on the cumulative total mass contribution. (3) Determination of the inputs/outputs by using appropriate cut-off criteria based on the number of occurrences of an individual recurring set of unit. processes. The results from these methodologies are analyzed using a hypothetical example and an actual case from the petrochemical industry. These methods enhance the reliability and consideration of on-site information in recurring unit processes. In particular, the determination of the inputs/outputs associated with each unit process by Using simultaneous equations does not add assumptions regarding cut-off criteria selection and provides the advantages of time conservation, consistency and affinity to on-site consideration. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.The paper presents the main results of a recent study on sustainable use of products. It reveals that strategies of use intensification and useful life extension are environmentally beneficial. Moreover, analysis of household washing and winter sports illustrated that successful implementation of sustainable use patterns occurs as a shift of use regimes. Such regimes are the result of a complex interplay of supply and demand side factors, relationship among actors, technical trajectories, organisational structures etc. One decisive factor is the presence of strategic players, so called "change agents". In addition, four user types have been identified in a representative survey ("ownership-oriented", "open-minded", "consumption-oriente
d", "low interest") to which use intensification and useful life extension can be targeted. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is conducted for two types of aluminum alloy bush bearings used for automotive transmissions. Equivalent CO2 emission (ECE) is used as the index of the environmental impact for global warming, and is compared through their manufacturing processes. Two types of bush bearings, which are in the market, show little difference in ECE, irrespective of different lining structure if comparison is made by taking a single piece of bearing as the functional unit. However, when the functional unit is defined so that relative life of the bearings based on their anti-wear potential is taken into account, reduction of environmental impact by higher wear resistance of the bearing material and by improved formation of lubricating oil can be estimated quantitatively. This LCA procedure is expected to be a useful tool for an environmentally friendly design of tribo-components.One side effect of the concentration in the dairy sector caused by increasing competition is the creation of larger production holdings. The question arises whether the longer transport distances for raw materials and end products also lead to higher environmental pollution. Life cycle analysis is a good instrument for describing the effects of the dairy factory capacity on ecologically relevant parameters like raw material consumption, air pollution/emissions, etc.. For a summarizing assessment of such descriptions, possibly including ecological effects, several goal dimensions have to be taken into account within the frame of a Multi-Criteria-Decision-Making. For a methodical improvement of the more or less subjective methods applied up to now the use of a methodology from the Data Envelopment Analysis is presented and implemented at the example of model dairies of different sizes. In a first step all pareto-optimal problem solutions are detected to be classified in a second step with the aid of goal weights. These goal weights can be represented by scaling the different goal measuring dimensions. Simultaneously they fulfill the function of opportunity costs of a simple decisional problem. The represented method delivers a complete solution of the exemplary problem and can be used for further issues in the frame of MCDM.Four Cleaning-In-Place (CIP) methods for dairies were compared using life cycle assessment (LCA). The methods were conventional alkaline, acid cleaning with hot ater disinfection, one-phase alkaline cleaning with acid chemical disinfection, enzyme-based cleaning with acid chemical disinfection and the conventional method with disinfection by cold nitric acid at pH 2. Production of detergents, transport, the user phase in the dairy and waste management of containers were included. The user phase was found to be the most important part of the life cycle. The CIP methods with small volumes and low temperatures. Such as enzyme-based cleaning and one-phase alkaline cleaning. turned Out to be the best alternatives for the impact categories energy use. global warming, acidification, eutrophication and photo-oxidant Formation. Milk residues flushed out in the rinsing phase ere the main contributor to eutrophication, but the phosphorus and nitrogen in the detergents also influenced the results. Evaluation of 
toxic substances poses a methodological problem in LCA. In this study. detergents partly composed of toxic substances ere included. and the overall assessment vas that the one-phase alkaline cleaning method was preferable from an environmental point of A qualitative assessment of toxicity was performed. (C) 2003 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. on behalf of Swiss Society of Food Science and Technology.The materials included in this paper were originally produced as contributions to Mining, Minerals and Sustainable Development, a project of the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED) in London, UK. The project was made possible by the support of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The RED and the WBCSD own the copyright. Extracts from these documents may be reproduced for non-commercial purposes without permission provided full acknowledgement of the copyright holders is given.This paper is adapted from the Europena Aluminium Association (EAA) document 'Key features: How to treat aluminium in LCAs, with special regard to recycling issues', which can be found at www.aluminium.org/environment/lca&methodology.asp. It is reprinted with permission.Weighting in LCIA (life cycle impact assessment) can be classified into two types: midpoint and endpoint. To improve the transparency and reliability of impact assessment, the development of the endpoint approach has been required internationally in recent years. A methodology that enables the assessment of physical damage for Japanese products has to be developed, because the actual damage is dependent on the emission area and exposed area. Regarding LCIA for materials, though some studies have already been performed, there is no consensus among the results of various methods because of the lack of reliability and transparency in conventional methodologies. This paper describes the results of a case study for steel sheets applying the Japanese endpoint-type LCIA method. We adopted the DALY concept to indicate the damage to human health. It is found that the subjective judgments can be reduced maximally by applying the endpoint approach.The environmental impact assessment of the Imperial Smelting Process for metallic zinc and lead production in Shaoguan Smelter, China, was carried out by the life cycle assessment method. The detailed inventory analysis of the Input/Output in the process during 1998-2000 was conducted and the allocation was done among the main products of zinc, lead and sulfuric acid, according to the system expansion and substitution principle. The environmental impacts were assessed by using the following five Eco-indicators: Gross Energy Requirement (GER), Global Warming Potential (GWP), Acidification Potential (AP), Heavy Metal Toxicity (HMT) and Solid Waste Burden (SWB). The results from this study are useful to address the environmental situation of the technology practice in this smelter, and provide a scientific basis for the further improvement.One aspect of decision making in water recycling is the need to evaluate the environmental performance of different treatment technologies. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is identified here as a suitable initial tool that can be used to address a wide range of potential environmental impacts caused by each technology under study over their life-time. In this paper, the results of a case 
study in which LCA is used in evaluating three water recycling technologies are reported. One of the findings from the case study is that LCA fails to account for the potential accumulation of toxic substance which is a major concern in water recycling, particularly when applications such as irrigation are of interest. A Toxic Substance Accumulation (TSA) prediction method is described which was tested with the same treatment technologies assessed in the LCA case study. The information on land use impacts obtained from the LCA study including Terrestrial Ecotoxicity Potential (TETP) and Salinisation Potential (SP) is compared with the information derived from the TSA method. It is found that the additional information obtained from the TSA method adds value to the environmental impact assessment of water recycling at both process and policy making levels and also assists in addressing the issue of sustainability of water recycling practice.A case study was done in order to investigate which of two compared technologies for chemical recovery in the pulp industry is environmentally favourable. The means to answer this question was to compare life cycle inventory, LCI, data of a recovery boiler (RB) system, to that of black liquor gasification (BLG) system, with the help of life cycle assessment, LCA, methodology. The chemical recovery processes by themselves are not the dominant contributors to the life cycle environmental effects. Instead, the production chains of the chemical and energy inputs to the processes dominate. An analysis based on current life cycle impact assessment, LCIA, environmental performance indices gives an unequivocal answer to the main question, although the strength of the answer varies between different impact assessment methods. However, the BLG system is better for the environment. If the BLG system would switch from oil to biofuel in its causticising plant, it would become clearly superior.An LCA of organic potatoes cultivated in southern Sweden was carried out to gain more knowledge about the environmental impact and resource use along the food chain. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a method for analysis and assessment of the potential environmental impact caused by products (ISO 14040). Included in the study were the production of inputs to agriculture, agricultural production, sorting and packaging, distribution and the household phase. The use of energy, water and other resources were also included as well as basic environmental impact categories such as global warming, acidification, eutrophication, toxicity, ozone depletion and photo-oxidant formation. A major finding was that the agricultural production accounted for almost all the emissions contributing to eutrophication and acidification. Other findings were that agricultural production, production of packaging materials and the household phase were the main contributors to global warming, while the energy use was rather evenly distributed among the life cycle stages. The primary improvement options identified in the study were to reduce nitrogen emissions contributing to acidification and eutrophication and to reduce potato losses due to poor quality. The organic potato yields are generally very low, typically about 60% of the conventional levels. Increased yields would be beneficial from an environmental point of view.When you consider the future of our
 planet, energy problem and environmental problem will appear. The authors propose its solution, which is utilization of deserts for power plant by PV technology. 100 MW VLS-PV systems which arc fixed flat plate system in the world deserts and sun-tracking system in the Gobi desert are assumed and evaluated in detail by using Life Cycle Assessment. It means that the VLS-PV systems are evaluated in terms of its input and output from cradle to grave. As a result, 5.4 Cent/kWh cost, 1.6 years energy payback time, and 12 g-C/kWh CO2 emission rate for Sun tracking system are obtained in the Gobi desert case. Of cause, fixed flat plate systems get the low cost and low energy requirement. The Very Large-Scale sun tracking Photovoltaic power generation system is very promising for the energy resource saving and environmentalSustainable development is one of the focus issues in modem society, and its kernel is to keep society and economy development harmonious with nature resources and environmental quality. As a main wealth of human beings, buildings impact environment significantly and thus take significant responsibility in global sustainable development, so we must diminish the building environmental impact when we construct a benign living and working environment, in which building environmental assessment occupies a crucial position. This paper gives a brief overview about existing environmental assessment methodologies for buildings and the tools that support them in advanced countries, especially the key issues of life cycle assessment method which employed for buildings and their services systems, the discrepancies compared with common environment assessment, and the problems still persisting in existing methodologies. Finally, several advices about building environmental assessment are put forward, which will lead to a great improvement for the practicability of building sustainable development.Introduction of zero emission concepts nowadays has opened the way for possible commercial markets for battery-powered electric vehicles (EV). In comparison to gasoline-powered cars, these vehicles produce CO2 emission half of that gasoline-powered and almost similar amount in comparison to hybrid electric vehicles over their useful lives. Since most of the emissions in electric vehicles are most likely attributable to production of their very large batteries, environmental consequences of producing and disposing of EV batteries may be significant. The present study aims to analyze environmental impacts associated with recycling and waste management of four electric battery technologies likely to be used in the near future using abridged life cycle assessment (LCA) which produces easily comprehended information about each life stage of a product. Secondly, it aims to select the most environmentally benign battery technology by considering their manufacturing issues (e.g. process and materials compatibility, resource consumption, cost/economic feasibility), political and social viability (e.g. regulatory status, community impacts, global impacts), environmental impacts (e.g. local air, water, soil, solid waste) and exposure and toxicity potential (e.g. community exposure, occupational exposure, environmental exposure, human acute and chronic toxicity). The EVs' battery technologies considered here are lead acid (PbA), nickel-cadmium (NiCd), nickel 
metal hydride (NiMH) and sodium-sulfur (NaS). In this study, we compared potential health and environmental impacts of four battery technologies and focused on recycling and waste disposal life stages, with an emphasis on design factors that could prevent or increase impacts. With regard to the evaluation of battery technologies, since the data used are often contradictory, variable, uncertain and sometimes impossible to validate independently, fuzzy linguistic approach is applied here to address this data ambiguity and its results are also being compared to the ranking obtained using the well-known analytical hierarchy planning (AHP) approach. Based on AHP evaluation, the recycling assessment ranks the batteries studied in the following preferential order: NiMH > NaS > PbA > NiCd. In terms of disposal, NiMH and NaS batteries are of greater concern because of landfill impacts while both NiCd and PbA batteries are considered the most favourable. Almost similar results were also obtained using fuzzy linguistic approach.The technical and environmental performance of a solar water heater (SWH) is examined using the method of life cycle analysis (LCA). The present LCA study quantifies the environmental benefits of the installation of a SWH. Solar thermal heating produces no emissions during operation but some small levels of emissions are produced during the manufacture and installation of components and systems, The study examines the manufacturing stages of the SWH and records resource consumption and waste streams to the environment. The system boundary includes the production of raw materials such as steel, glass, copper, aluminium, glass fibber and polyurethane insulators, the manufacturing of the various parts of the SWH such as the solar collector and the heat storage tank, and finally the assembly process. The functional unit chosen is 1 MW of produced hot water. The environmental impacts consider in the study are the greenhouse effect, ozone depletion, acidification, eutrophication, heavy metals, carcinogens, winter and summer smog. The impacts are normalised and evaluated based on weighting factors. The acidification effect has the largest contribution to the total environmental score impact. LCA is a powerful tool in the evaluation of the environmental efficiency of processes. The produced results can be very useful in decision-making by providing a quantification basis for assessing potential improvements in environmental performance of an energy system throughout its life cycle.The presented project, which aims at the development of tools to support waste management planning and optimisation in European cities, in particular cities from EU Accession Countries, has been initiated within the European Commission's Fifth Framework Programme: Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development Work Programme - Key action: City of tomorrow and Cultural Heritage. The Consortium of this project consists of twelve Partners, both from the European States well as EU Accession States, with TU Darmstadt as a coordinator. Although the project is supported by the European Commission, the content provided here is a responsibility of the project partners and does not necessarily represent the opinion of the European Community. The main objective of the project is to develop two tools: (i) a prognostic model to predict quantity and composition of munic
ipal waste and (ii) a performance assessment system for alternative waste management scenarios. The latter will consist of a set of qualitative sustainability criteria along with quantitative impact indicators enabling assessment of waste management strategies. The three sustainability aspects to be considered are environmental, economic and social aspects. Targeted end-users are municipalities, as decision makers in waste management planning. Deliveries of the project, both a waste prognostic model and a waste management system assessment model will be verified in six cities in Southern and Eastern Europe. In this paper the concept of the assessment model is described in more detail. Model development within the project consortium is split to three areas of assessment: environmental, economic and social, each supervised by another project partner. In this paper solely the undertaken approach of the environmental assessment is presented. One of the major challenges of the EU Accession Countries in waste management area is to comply with the European waste legislation. However, the targets of EU waste policy can be achieved in more or less efficient ways. The goal of waste management system is to effectively manage waste through resource conservation, optimise the use of waste treatment technology and limit waste disposal. The proposed assessment method will be based on a life cycle assessment (LCA) approach i.e. the borders of assessment will be extended to account for all relevant aspects resulting from a waste management system. The LCA methodology typically used for environmental assessment of a product is complex and its results are difficult to interpret for a non expert. Therefore, in this project an attempt will be made to developThe international effort for the protection and restoration of the environment includes serious intervention on the energy system, exploitation of Renewable Energy Sources (RES) being the most important among others. Until now solar domestic hot water systems (DSHWS) have been the most widely used RES system in Greece. Although solar energy is a "clean" energy form, during the life cycle of solar systems (raw materials extraction, manufacturing, transportation, use and disassembly) important environmental transactions take place, as the use of energy and also the use of the solar systems is accompanied by the emission of air pollutants and the production of liquid and solid waste. Therefore, a complete evaluation of the solar energy technology demands the assessment of the indirect environmental impact that occurs and furthermore an analysis of solar systems based on their life cycle (use of natural resources and energy, air pollution and solid-liquid wastes). In this paper we conduct a Life Cycle Assessment for solar thermosiphonic systems according to the international standards and guidelines. The main objective is the evaluation of the location's influence on alternative energy systems and their comparison with conventional energy forms. To achieve this we use the methodology and the database of the "Eco-Indicator '99", that covers the greatest spectrum of processes and impacts, compared with other known methodologies. As an example a typical solar thermosiphonic system with a 4 m(2) collector area and a capacity of 150 It, which covers the hot water needs of a three person family, is analyzed for nine
 different locations in Greece. The main objective of the analysis is the calculation of the environmental benefits for various locations from the use of a DSHWS in substitution of electricity during the whole life span of the DSHWS. All the materials that are used and processes that are imposed in the construction of the selected solar system are taken into account. The impact is given for each component of the solar system (collector area, boiler, mounting base, appurtenances box, transportation to installation area) as well as for each material used (steel, copper, aluminum, glass, insulation, others).The implementation of the concept of Sustainable Development presupposes no further overspending and deterioration of natural resources. This can only be achieved by the implementation of various environmentally friendly strategies that will lead to the design of environmentally friendly products. The great capabilities that the computer technology offers lead to a great speed and accuracy of results. The software tools that are available for Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) and Ecodesign (1) are many and although each has its own features, almost all of them are based on the same methodology and have many common characteristics. Their range of uses varies throughout product's development phases - from the product's concept conceiving to the phase that a product is ready for the market and to the phase that is disassembled and ready for reuse or final disposal. The analysis done in this work refers to more than 30 software tools and databases that are the most widely known and used and is aimed at raising the awareness and knowledge of researchers in the field of analysis and design of products and processes. The main specifications of these software tools have been identified. On this basis (i.e. using the specifications given by the software developers at their web site instead of a direct evaluation - benchmark because this would have been very costly and time consuming since not all developers release a demo of their software) a comparison was applied showing their main common specifications and differences.Energy production from biomass presents environmental benefits, since it is a renewable source and a CO2 neutral fuel that can be used in a variety of applications (power production, transportation, etc.). However, biomass production and handling may be accompanied by negative ecological side-effects. In this paper, a hypothetical power production system using biomass from a cardoon energy plantation, was analysed using the methodology of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), in order to assess its environmental impacts. Fossil energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions (CO2, N2O and CH4) as well as SO2 and NOx emissions were assessed for the whole system on the basis of 1 kWh of electricity produced. The methodology of LCA has been developed to evaluate the environmental burdens over the whole life cycle of a product or service taking into account all processes from raw material extraction until waste disposal. According to ISO standards for LCA (14040 - 14043) an LCA comprises of 4 interconnected phases: (1) goal and scope definition; (2) inventory analysis; (3) impact assessment and (4) interpretation. The system under consideration was divided into three subsystems: (a) biomass production; (b) transportation and storage; (c) power production
. The nominal capacity of the power plant was set to 20 MWe, and the biomass required is produced from the cultivation of a total area of 1.270 ha. The obtained results show that the energy balance of the system is positive and 1 unit of fossil energy is required to produced 2,3 units of electricity. The biomass production stage contributes significantly to the total energy consumption and to CO2 and SO2 emissions, the combustion stage to the total CH4, N2O and NOx emissions, while the contribution of biomass transportation and storage to all parameters considered in the study is relatively small. A sensitivity analysis shows that the efficiency of the power plant has the largest influence on the results, followed by fertilisation and the yield of the energy crop. Transportation distances had a minor influence.Without any dispute, textile industry is one of the most economically powerful industries on the globe. Subsequently, textile industry due to its intensive production composes a sector with high environmental impact. Hence, the necessity for integrated and sophisticated environmental management systems (EMS) for those companies belong to that industrial sector looks quite apparent. It has been widely accepted that a company's goals that have been set under the notion of Sustainable Development can be met only if those companies shift from the current "strictly" product-related environmental management systems to the more integrated and comprehensive corporation-related environmental management systems. That is a system, which screens and considers the company as a unified system, trying to cover every aspect of its activity. However, radical changes regarding a company's environmental behavior and performance demand deep understanding of the implications and interactions between the different sectors of that company and its surrounding environment, as well as, a concrete picture of what the final scope of that change might be. Life Cycle Thinking (LCT) could the optimum mean for a company to put under the spotlight the patterns of that change and additionally LCT should be the basis for every company's activities aim at managing company's operations and supplier networks and incorporating Design for Environment principles into every stage. In the Literature, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is the management tool, which tries to evaluate and bring on surface any potential environmental burden a product might cause at any stage of its whole life cycle. Furthermore, LCA composes the management tool, which could reveal spaces for improvement either in the input or the output phase of a product. On the other hand ISO 14000 is one of the most widely known and used certified environmental management systems which requires an evaluation of environmental aspects and those aspects which would be considered "significant", and thus, making a company to potentially investigate its supply chain due to the possible "influence". The aim of this paper is to briefly analyze the importance and contribution of Life Cycle Thinking to the drawing and implementation of any integrated EMS such as ISO 14000 in textile industry.This paper presents a number of exergy-based concepts and methods, e.g. efficiency concepts, exergy flow diagrams, exergy utility diagrams (EUDs), life cycle exergy analysis (LCEA) and exergy economy optimization (EEO). These tools are us
eful in order to describe, analyse and optimize energy conversion systems.A comprehensive methodology has been developed to compare the environmental damage caused by vehicles with different alternative fuels, such as CNG, LPG, etc., and drivetrains, such as electric and hybrid drives. This paper describes how the environmental effect of vehicles should be defined and includes parameters concerning vehicle emissions and their influence on human well-being and the environment. It then describes how the environmental effect of vehicles could be defined, taking into account the availability of accurate and reliable data. Rating systems are analysed as a means of comparing the environmental effect of vehicles, allowing decision-makers to dedicate their financial and non-financial policies and measures as a function of the ecological damage. Different types of pollution (acid rain, photochemical air pollution, noise pollution, etc.) and their effect on numerous receptors such as ecosystems, buildings and human beings (e.g. cancer, respiratory diseases, etc.) and global warming are considered. The methodology described, known as Ecoscore, is based on a methodology similar to life cycle assessment (LCA) which considers the part played by emissions in certain types of damage (e.g. by using the exposure-response damage function). Total emissions involve oil extraction, transport and refinery. fuel distribution and electricity generation and distribution (well-to-wheel approach). Emissions due to the production, use and dismantling of the vehicle (cradle-to-grave approach) should also be considered. The different types of damage are normalized to make comparisons possible. Hence. a reference value (determined by a chosen reference vehicle) will be defined as a target value (the normalized value will thus measure a kind of distance to target). The contribution of the different normalized types of damage to a single value-Ecoscore-is based on a panel weighting method. This new approach differs from other methodologies in that it has been especially developed for the assessment of the environmental effect of vehicle emissions in an urban context, such as the Brussels Capital Region. Additionally, this methodology not only considers conventional vehicles but can also evaluate all alternative fuels and drivetrains with new vehicle technologies. Some examples of Ecoscore calculation are illustrated.Protected cultivation is aimed at obtaining higher yields by modifying and improving natural climatic conditions. In spite of the fact that Mediterranean horticulture is mainly based on low technology cold greenhouses, protected cultivation has a negative environmental impact. Nowadays, efforts are being made to improve the sustainability level of this cultivation system. This paper presents the adaptation of a known methodology, Life Cycle Assessment, LCA, to determine the environmental burdens associated with protected cultivation. LCA is a tool for assessing the environmental aspects and potential impacts associated with a product or a system. It considers the entire life cycle of a product from resource extraction to waste disposal. According to ISO standardisation guidelines, an LCA study can be divided into four steps: goal and scope definition, inventory analysis, impact assessment, and interpretation. In the goal and scope definition, the aim and the s
ubject of an LCA study are determined and a 'functional unit' is defined, for instance, yield per square meter. In the inventory analysis, all extractions of resources and emissions of substances attributable to the studied functional unit are listed. In the impact assessment, the magnitude of the potential impact of individual substances within each impact category is determined. Impact categories correspond to environmental problems, such as human toxicity or ozone depletion. The final step in an LCA study is the interpretation of the results from the previous three steps, to draw conclusions and to formulate recommendations. This powerful tool can be used to identify the part of the whole production process in which the most important environmental damages are found and consequently apply the best technologies to mitigate them. LCA can also be applied to compare two different procedures to cultivate a crop, and decide which one has the best environmental behaviour considering its whole life cycle.This paper first provides an overview of the financial state of the process industry, major issues it currently faces, and job placement of chemical engineers in the U.S. These facts combined with an expanded role of Process Systems Engineering, are used to argue that to support the "value preservation" and "value growth" industry three major future research challenges need to be addressed: Product Discovery and Design, Enterprise and Supply Chain Optimization, and Global Life Cycle Assessment. We provide a brief review of the progress that has been made in these areas, as well as the supporting methods and tools for tackling these problems. Finally, we provide some concluding remarks.In this paper, a methodology is presented for the explicit inclusion of environmental impact assessment criteria as part of strategic investment decisions related to supply chain networks. At this level, the earliest opportunities exist for a company to influence both its future market competitiveness and environmental performance. Trying to give consideration to not only the traditional economic criteria, but also to the multiple environmental concerns, inevitably results in the design task being formulated as a multi-objective optimisation problem. In this way, the simultaneous consideration of multiple selection criteria provides an ideal platform for exploring trade-offs upon which environmentally conscious business decision-making can be based.This paper presents the use of process simulation and the eco-matrix methodology to obtain the environmental impacts of a chemical process. The case study was the i-pentane purification process from the REPSOL-YPF refinery (Tarragona, Spain). First, the model was validated with plant data. Second, the key results establish the life cycle inventory, where the consumption of natural resources and the releases to the environment were quantified. The environmental aspects included in the eco-vector were divided into two categories: consumption of natural resources and wastes. The environmental loads were evaluated and compared for eight alternative scenarios of electricity generation and steam production. Cogeneration and heat recovery were the best alternatives from the environmental point of view. Although the life cycle approach does not allow the differentiation between local and global impacts, it is a valuable tool f
or strategic decision-making at a managerial level.Major challenges on process industries from environment protection and sustainable development contribute to the emergence and development of green process systems engineering (PSE). This paper is trying to make a survey of the efforts of Green PSE responding these challenges in the last two decades, including what this term means, what have been done, and what are likely to be done.In order to improve the environmental performance of chemical industry, process engineering needs to incorporate environmental issues in a broader scope. In this work, a design procedure which incorporates LCA into the design phase of chemical processes was developed, and newly required activities, tools and information which are prerequisites to fulfill these activities were identified. A case study on the chemical recycling process of PET bottles was used to demonstrate the methodology.Currently, the approach of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has been widely used for product and process environmental management. However, when an enterprise or an industrial park makes product decision, the economic and social performance should also be considered besides environmental impact. So an approach that can be applied for economic, environmental and social LCA is in need now. In order to meet this kind of need, one LCA index system considering product economic, environmental and social performance is established in this paper. Using the composite index method, product overall economic, environmental and social index can be calculated. When multiple products are to be compared, these indexes can be applied as the criterion. Also in this paper this assessment index system is combined with optimization technology of process system to optimize one organic silicone product structure. This approach can make compositive assessment of product and give an enterprise. or industrial park proper product design, guaranteeing best economic, environmental and social overall performance.The concept of cumulative exergy consumption for treatment of emissions (CExCT) is proposed based on an acceptable level of the environmental impact. The concept of equivalent cumulative exergy consumption (ECExC) is presented as the objective function for total environmental impact analysis of industrial processes and thus providing information of how effective a process is regarding the consumption of natural resources. The amount of resources and energy required to operate and construct a process can be investigated and quantified from the viewpoint of ECExC. A heat pump distillation process is taken as an example to demonstrate the effectiveness of this method. Moreover, a comparison is made with the results obtained from economic optimization. It appears that this method may be particularly useful for environmental impact minimization of industrial processes.We examine the life cycle implications of a wide range of fuels and propulsion systems that could power cars and light trucks in the US and Canada over the next two to three decades ((1) reformulated gasoline and diesel, (2) compressed natural gas, (3) methanol and ethanol, (4) liquid petroleum gas, (5) liquefied natural gas, (6) Fischer-Tropsch liquids from natural gas, (7) hydrogen, and (8) electricity; (a) spark ignition port injection engines, (b) spark ignition direct injection engines, (c
) compression ignition engines, (d) electric motors with battery power, (e) hybrid electric propulsion options, and (f) fuel cells). We review recent studies to evaluate the environmental, performance, and cost characteristics of fuel/propulsion technology combinations that are currently available or will be available in the next few decades. Only options that could power a significant proportion of the personal transportation fleet are investigated. Contradictions among the goals of customers, manufacturers, and society have led society to assert control through extensive regulation of fuel composition, vehicle emissions, and fuel economy. Changes in social goals, fuel-engine-emissions technologies, fuel availability, and customer desires require a rethinking of current regulations as well as the design of vehicles and fuels that will appeal to consumers over the next decades. The almost 250 million light-duty vehicles (LDV; cars and light trucks) in the US and Canada are responsible for about 14% of the economic activity in these countries for the year 2002. These vehicles are among our most important personal assets and liabilities, since they are generally the second most expensive asset we own, costing almost $100 000 over the lifetime of a vehicle. While an essential part of our lifestyles and economies, in the US, for example, the light-duty fleet is also responsible for 42 000 highways deaths, and four million injuries each year, consumes almost half of the petroleum used, and causes large amounts of illness and premature death due to the emissions of air pollutants (e.g. nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and particles). The search for new technologies and fuels has been driven by regulators, not the marketplace. Absent regulation, most consumers would demand larger, more powerful vehicles, ignoring fuel economy and emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases; the vehicles that get more than 35 mpg make up less than 1% of new car sales. Federal regulators require increased vehicle safety, decreased pollution emissions, and better fuel economy. In addition, California and Canadian regulators are concerned about lowering greenhouse gas emissions. Many people worry about the US dependence on imported petroleum, and people in both countries desire a switch from petroleum to a more sustainable fuel. The fuel-technology combinations and vehicle attributes of concern to drivers and regulators are examined along with our final evaluation of the alternatives compared to a conventional gasoline-fueled spark ignition port injection automobile. When the US Congress passed laws intended to increase safety, decrease emissions, and increase fuel economy, they did not realize that these goals were contradictory. For example, increasing safety requires increasing weight, which lowers fuel economy; decreasing emissions generally decreases engine efficiency. By spending more money or by reducing the performance of the vehicle, most of the attributes can be improved without harming others. For example, spending more money can lighten the vehicle (as with an aluminum frame with greater energy absorbing capacity), improving performance and safety; a smaller engine can increase fuel economy without diminishing safety or increasing pollution emissions, but performance -- We discuss methods needed to evaluate the attractiveness of vehicles e
mploying alternative fuels and propulsion systems including: 1. Predicting the vehicle attributes and tradeoffs among these attributes that consumers will find appealing; 2. assessing current and near term technologies to predict the primary attributes of each fuel and propulsion system as well as its externalities and secondary effects; 3. applying a life cycle assessment approach; 4. completing a benefit-cost analysis to quantify the net social benefit of each alternative system; 5. assessing the comparative advantages of centralized command and control regulation versus the use of market incentives; 6. characterizing and quantifying uncertainty. An especially important feature of the analysis is ensuring that vehicles to be compared are similar on the basis of size, safety, acceleration, range; fuel economy, emissions and other vehicle attributes. Since it is nearly impossible to find two vehicles that are identical, we use the criterion of asking whether consumers (and regulators) consider them to be comparable. Comparability has proven to be a difficult task for analysts. No one has managed a fully satisfactory method for adjustment, although some have made progress. Absurd comparisons, such as comparing the fuel economy of a Metro to that of an Expedition, have not been made because of the good sense of analysts. However, steps should be taken to achieve further progress in developing methods to address this issue. Comparing fuels and propulsion systems require a comprehensive, quantitative, life cycle approach to the analysis. It must be more encompassing than 'well-to-wheels' analysis. Well-to-wheels is comprised of two components, the 'well-to-tank' (all activities involved in producing the fuel) and 'tank-to-wheel' (the operation/driving of the vehicle). The analyses must include the extraction of all raw materials, fuel production, infrastructure requirements, component manufacture, vehicle manufacture, use, and end-of-life phases of the vehicle. Focusing on a portion of the system can be misleading. The analysis must be quantitative and include the array of environmental discharges, as well as life cycle cost information, since each fuel and propulsion system has its comparative advantages. Comparing systems requires knowing how much better each alternative is with respect to some dimensions and how much worse it is with respect to others. Since focusing on a single stage or attribute of a system can be misleading, e.g. only tailpipe emissions, we explore the life cycle implications of each fuel and propulsion technology. For example, the California Air Resources Board focused on tailpipe emissions in requiring zero emissions vehicles, neglecting the other attributes of battery-powered cars, such as other environmental discharges, cost, consumer acceptance and performance. The necessity of examining the whole life cycle and all the attributes is demonstrated by the fact that CARB had to rescind its requirement that 2% of new vehicles sold in 1998 and 10% sold in 2003 be zero emissions vehicles. No one fuel/propulsion system dominates the others on all the dimensions in Table 8. This means that society must decide which attributes are more important, as well as the tradeoffs among attributes. For example, higher manufacturing cost could be offset by lower fuel costs over the life of the vehicle. Changes in social goals, technol
ogy, fuel options, customer desires, and public policy since 1970 have changed vehicle design, fuel production, manufacturing plants, and infrastructure. In particular, gasoline or diesel in an internal combustion engine (ICE) is currently the cheapest system and is likely to continue to be the cheapest system through 2020. These vehicles will continue to evolve with improvements in performance; safety, fuel economy, and lower pollution emissions. However, if society desires a more sustainable system or one that emits significantly less greenhouse gases, consumers will have to pay more for an alternative fuel or propulsion system. We review a dozen life cycle studies that have examined LDV, comparing different fuels and/or propulsion systems. The studies are summarized in Tables 4 and 5. The studies vary in the fuel/propulsion options they consider, the environmental burdens they report, and the assumptions they employ, making it difficult to compare results. However, all of the studies include the 'well-to-tank' and 'tank-to-wheel' activities and the majority of the studies include a measure of efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions associated with these activities. We limit our comparison to these activities and measures. The life cycle studies match most closely for the well-to-tank portion and for conventional fossil fuels. See Table 6 for a summary of the ranges of efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reported in the studies for the well-to-tank portion for the various options. For the well-to-tank portion for the production of electricity, renewable fuels, and hydrogen, differing, fuel production pathways are most important. Due to the range of different production options for these fuels (as well as other issues such as study assumptions), results are much more variable. In addition, there is less experience with producing these fuels, resulting in more uncertainty. It is important to distinguish between total and fossil energy required for production when comparing efficiencies among the fuels. Petroleum-based fuels have the highest efficiency for the well-to-tank portion when;total energy is considered. However, if only fossil energy is considered, biomass-based fuels such as ethanol become more attractive. The tank-to-wheel portions are more difficult to compare. Each study uses its selected vehicle (e.g. conventional sedans, light-weight sedans, pickup trucks); many present assumptions regarding the vehicle efficiencies. However, the studies do not generally report the range of assumptions or test conditions. The well-to-wheel results (the sum of the well-to-tank and tank-to-wheel activities) of the studies are still more difficult to compare. The baseline vehicle (with a few exceptions) is a current gasoline fueled ICE port fuel injection vehicle; it combines an efficient well-to-tank portion with a relatively inefficient tank-to-wheel portion. A direct injection diesel vehicle is considerably more efficient and therefore results in lower emissions of carbon dioxide even though the carbon content in the diesel is higher than that in gasoline. Fuel cell vehicles have a high theoretical efficiency but generally a low efficiency well-to-tank portion, which offsets some of the vehicle efficiency, benefits. Table 7 shows the ranges of values reported in the life cycle studies for the well-to-wheel greenhouse gas emissions. All 
of the fossil fuel options result in emissions of large amounts of greenhouse gases. Ethanol and hydrogen have the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly. However, this is highly dependent on the pathways for ethanol and hydrogen production, especially the amount of fossil fuel inputs during production. Some of the hydrogen options result in higher greenhouse gas emissions than those of a gasoline ICE vehicle. Results for hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) are dependent on the efficiency improvements over conventional vehicles that are assumed. As noted above, Table 8 summarizes our best judgment as to how each fuel/propulsion system combination would be evaluated on each attribute desired by consumers or society. No one system beats the alternatives on all dimensions. The most desirable system is defined by the properties that the evaluator thinks are most important. Despite the many difficulties and complexities, there are some broad conclusions regarding LDV for the next two to three decades. The vehicle options likely to be competitive during the next two decades are those using improved ICES, including HEVs burning 'clean' gasoline or diesel. An extensive infrastructure has been developed to locate, extract, transport, refine, and retail gasoline and diesel. Any alternative to petroleum would require a new infrastructure with attendant disruption and costs running to trillions of dollars. The current infrastructure is a major reason for continuing to use gasoline and diesel fuels. Absent a breakthrough in electrochemistry, battery-powered vehicles will remain expensive and have an unattractive range. The failure to produce a breakthrough despite considerable research does not give much hope that vastly superior, inexpensive batteries will be produced within our time frame. Fuel cell propulsion systems are unlikely to be competitive before 2020, if they are ever competitive. Although, fuel cells have high theoretical efficiencies, and do not need a tailpipe and therefore have vehicle emissions benefits over conventional vehicles, generating the hydrogen and getting it to the vehicle requires large amounts of energy. The current well-to-wheel analyses show that using a liquid fuel and onboard reforming produces a system inferior to gasoline powered ICEs on the basis of efficiency and environmental discharges. Storage of the hydrogen onboard the vehicle is another challenge. Fischer-Tropsch liquids from natural gas and ethanol from biomass may become widespread. The Fischer-Tropsch liquids will penetrate if there are large amounts of stranded natural gas selling for very low prices at the same time that petroleum is expensive or extremely low sulfur is required in diesel fuel. Ethanol could become the dominant fuel if energy independence, sustainability, or very low carbon dioxide emissions become important-or if petroleum prices double. Absent major technology breakthroughs, a doubling of petroleum prices, or stringent regulation of fuel economy or greenhouse gas emissions, the 2030 LDV will be powered by a gasoline ICE. The continuing progress in increasing engine efficiency, lowering emissions, and supplying inexpensive gasoline makes it extremely difficult for any of the alternative fuels or propulsion technologies to displace the gasoline (diesel) fueled ICE. This conclusion should not be interpreted as one of desp
air or pessimism. Rather, the progress in improving the ICE and providing gasoline/diesel at low price has obviated the need for alternative technologies. Many of the technologies that we examine, such as cellulosic ethanol or Fishcher-Tropsch fuels from natural gas or HEVs are attractive. If there were no further progress in improving the gasoline/diesel fuel ICE or the fuel became more expensive, one or more of these options would take over the market. Thus, the fact that the current fuel and technology is so hard to displace means that society is getting what it wants at low cost. Extensive progress has been made by analysts in examining the life cycles of a range of fuels and propulsion systems for personal transportation vehicles. The most important contribution of these methods and studies is getting decision-makers to focus on the important attributes and to avoid looking only at one aspect of the fuel cycle or propulsion system or at only one media for environmental burdens. The current state of knowledge should avoid the recurrence of the fiasco of requiring battery-powered cars on the grounds that they are good for the environment and will appeal to consumers. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Japanese annual oil consumption is about 300 GL (giga liter) and energy related CO2 emission is about 300 MtC (mega ton carbon). Among them, transport vehicles consume one third of the oil, 100 GL/year, and emit 20 percent of the CO2, 61 MtC/year. Then, the substitution of carbon fiber reinforced plastics (CFRP) for the structural material of transport vehicle is quite effective in lightening, fuel efficiency and hence the mitigation of global warming. In this paper, life cycle CO2 emission and energy consumption of the ultra lightweight automobile using CFRP are presented first. Then, the effect of lightweight and fuel cell automobiles on the mitigation of global oil consumption and CO2 emission is estimated under the assumption of Asian motorization.A computer-based model for the evaluation of energy use in mechanized wood harvesting systems (EnergyCalc) was developed with aid of life cycle analysis methodologies. The system boundaries were determined "from stump to roadside" with wood volume over bark (m(3)) as the functional unit. The computer model (based on a database system) used a Visual Basic program, and the energy audit was based on fuel and oil consumption, and the energy consumed in the manufacture of the machines and replacement parts. The general scenario from the literature, results from Sweden and a preliminary study from Ireland are presented. In the overall energy audit of mechanized wood harvesting systems in Ireland, fuel consumption was the most significant item (82%), followed by oils (7%) and machine repairs and replacement (11%). The mean energy use from the data for Ireland was found to be 16% higher than the equivalent in Sweden (120 vs 103 MJ m(-3)). An energy reduction strategy that has the potential to reduce overall energy consumption for Irish systems by up to 13% was suggested.In my experience as an energy management instructor and energy auditor, I have found that certain items always seem to be included in the list of energy saving recommendations. These items are included because they typically have a reasonable payback for the effort. I have put together a list of what I have found to b
e the "top ten" of these energy saving measures. These measures tend to be more applicable to commercial buildings, but some of them, particularly the motor recommendations and utility concerns, may be appropriate for industrial facilities. This list can be used as a general guide as to what to examine first when looking at ways to save energy and reduce operating costs. The paybacks shown are of a "first cut" accuracy, and do not reflect maintenance or capital expenditure savings that can be included in a life cycle analysis. Further and more detailed analysis is recommended prior to the implementation of any of these measures. These paybacks shown are based on a range of average electrical and gas costs, and assume a capital cost for the energy conservation measure. The top ten items discussed include: converting standard fluorescent lighting systems to T8s systems with electronic ballasts; utilizing compact fluorescent lamps to replace incandescents; replacing exit signs containing incandescent or fluorescent lamps with LED exit signs; installing occupancy sensors for lighting control; using programmable thermostats for setback/setup control; replacing standard motors with energy efficient models; purchasing new energy efficient motors in lieu of rewinding, and converting water heating from electric to gas. Also addressed are understanding utility rates, tracking utilities, and the benefits of forming a working relationship with the utility representative.Manufacturing methods like turning or milling, which treat the workpiece individually or in defined numbers, generally allow an accurate allocation of the environmental impact resulting from the process. Due to the changing batch sizes of the normally used batch process in surface treatment, such allocation is only possible after the actual treatment and lacks the required precision. For financial accounting purposes this situation is unsatisfactory, because important cost factors like energy consumption, fuel costs, costs of sewage water, disposal of wastes and secondary treatment of emissions are among the impacts resulting from the process. If different workpieces are treated within one batch, it is almost impossible to allocate which resulting impacts depend on the single workpiece. The type and number of workpieces within a batch are therefore of central importance for an evaluation of a process. While a downstream evaluation of the actual process can lead to justifiable results, there is no method for a preliminary evaluation based on a single workpiece as needed for preliminary costing or preliminary life-cycle assessment. Such a method is to be developed in the scope of the Collaborative Research Center (CRC) 392. "Design for Environment methods and tools" of TU Darmstadt. In the research program, CRC 392, methods and instruments are developed for supporting the designer in all phases of product development. These methods and instruments enable the designer to assess and minimize the environmental impact of a (virtual) product in advance while taking into account technical and economic criteria. This paper is aimed to illustrate the economic and ecological consequences of the problem, and to explain the practical use of the method. Different systematic approaches are presented and evaluated regarding their practicability. The characteristics of different manufacturing processe
s and their influence on composition and size of the load are considered.A Life-Environment project (AQUASAVE), funded by the European Commission, with the aim of implementing an integrated system for saving, recycling and reusing water in an apartment building, has been recently concluded. For evaluating the environmental sustainability of introducing water-saving devices, rain-water harvesting and grey-water reusing technologies in domestic water cycle, the global environmental impact of existing drinking and wastewater treatment systems of Bologna city has been estimated by means of LCA methodology. In each technical process of Bologna water cycle the energy, chemicals and materials flows and the related emissions to air water and soil have been evaluated. The results have been compared with an "innovative" scenario in which the existing domestic water cycle has been modified by introducing AQUASAVE techniques. For a correct comparison of the two studied alternatives, the use of rain water in washing machines and the subsequent potential reduction of detergent consumption has been included in the systems boundaries. Life cycle impact assessment results confirm that the dominant process for the most important environmental impact categories, except eutrophication, is the production of electric energy needed for drinking and wastewater pumping. In this paper, after a short description of the AQUASAVE project, the analysed systems are described, the methodological approach and the final results of the study are discussed.This paper describes the steps used to couple results from a dynamic Material Flow Analysis (MFA) of the UK steel construction sector, with the results from a recent Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) study of the UK steel construction sector (European Commission. 2002) Information on the historical consumption of construction steel, typical lifetimes, statistical end-of-life distributions and re-use and recycling rates, have been used to develop a dynamic model of the yearly flows of steel within the construction sector. The data from the dynamic MFA model are coupled with the LCA results to determine the total annual energy consumption of the UK steel construction sector. Results show that 81% of the energy consumed by steel construction products in 1998 was by the production of finished steel for the sector.The environmental design of office buildings holds a particular interest for many stake holders in society, but at the moment it is still difficult to find comprehensive life cycle-based environmental data from offices. In this study, a life cycle assessment (LCA) was performed to determine the significant environmental aspects of a new office building. Those aspects of the office identified as the most significant were the heat lost in ventilation and conduction; the electricity used in outlets, lighting and HVAC systems; the manufacture and maintenance of steel, paints and non-ferrous metals; and the use of water and wastewater services. The most significant environmental aspects were quite dominant, since with 5% of all aspects they covered over 50% of the studied life cycle impacts.Difficulties arise in attempting to measure quality and making life cycle assessments. An owner must consider a trade-off between design and construction costs and operating and ownership costs. A case study of buildings regarding the cost-e
ffectiveness of rehabilitating older structures in lieu of new construction is described. This particular study showed that, depending upon the design of the building and its structural soundness, it is equally cost effective to consider the option of rehabilitation over new construction. Another study of roofing assets at two public sector organizations showed that planned routine and preventative maintenance can have a significant impact on prolonging the life cycle of facilities. Without a quality maintenance programme, the best-designed building will fail to reach its service life.The use of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for materials/process/product design is becoming increasingly important in the coating treatments industrial, where the methodology may be used to supply management strategies with particular attention to the choice between alternative processes. Automotive is one of the sectors where the LCA methodology is extensively employed because of the problem of environmental impact reduction related to fuel consumption that has primarily to be solved; in the same sector it is also important the possibility of extending the useful life of components by means of proper coating processes. Following these main lines, this paper presents the preliminary activities performed for NANOMAG ("Development of Innovative Nanocomposite Coatings for Magnesium Casting Protection" - Growth Programme n. 40548), a research project sponsored by the European Commission whose aim is to develop innovative solutions with an environmental friendly life-cycle perspective.The main emphasis of this study is to evaluate the potential environmental impact of diecasting process, which is one of well organized and kind of green technologies in casting processes. Material life cycle assessment (MLCA) was carried out in actual diecasting factory that produces various lightweight aluminum and magnesium components to obtain life cycle inventory data, quantify environmental impacts and finally try to get solutions for environmental improvement. In diecasting process, most of environmental impacts come from melting of raw materials for abiotic resource depletion and global warming due to burning gas and electricity used. The problem of photochemical oxidant creation is induced by spraying and lubricating steps.Environmental considerations have led to the phase out of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) refrigerants from the domestic refrigeration industry. One intriguing aspect is that the chlorine in CFCs is a good lubricating agent and any deterioration of system performance may adversely influence other environmental considerations. Based on this consideration, the aim of this research is to address the sustainable development of domestic refrigeration systems using the replacement refrigerant HFC-134a. The work focuses on the emissions that may arise if the electrical consumption of the product deteriorates or its durability is curtailed. Tribological characteristics on compressor components influence both of these product attributes and therefore a thorough system analysis was carried out. An in-house built experimental test fig, which monitored slight variations in the electrical power drawn by a reciprocating hermetic compressor, was used under different experimental conditions. Furthermore, a detailed life cycle assessment on a domestic refrigerator was performed to h
elp quantify the ensuing environmental burdens. In this way, a relation between tribological characteristics, power consumption and environmental impact was studied. This paper shows that the CFC substitute will increase friction and wear characteristics on the aluminium alloy connecting rod and the steel gudgeon pin. These characteristics may contribute to the observed increase in the electrical energy consumption of the compressor such that the indirect global warming implications rise with HFC-134a. If the sustainable development of this product is to be ascertained then a change in refrigerants alone will not suffice.Three water-immiscible coolants are compared due to their environmental burdens using LCA methodology. Main focus lies on an animal fat ester based product that is compared to a plant seed oil (rape) and a mineral oil based ester. All indicators show that the animal fat product cause the lowest potential impact on the environment whereas results for plant seed ester based and conventional coolants are ambiguous and don't allow for a clear preference of the one or the other. Advantage of native ester products is very clear in energy balance and abiotic resource depletion but in some impact categories scores of plant seed esters clearly exceed those of mineral oil.The project of boosting the Florence segment of the main Italian highway, linking the northern regions with the southern ones, has been evaluated in this work, by means of Life Cycle Assessment. Basically, the project consists in building a third lane, for both north and south directions, for the highway segment which bypasses the Florence urban area. This route - 22,5 km long between the two outermost Florence highway exits - is intensively used also as alternative local traffic way in spite of urban area crossing. Because of the large traffic flows, slowing-downs and jams are frequently reported, especially during rush hours. Beyond annoyances as comfort reduction, time wastes, and noises, this situation strongly contributes to environmental quality reduction in the suburban area, in the highway neighbourhoods. The present situation and the future scenario of third lane addiction have been compared in terms of environmental effects on a life cycle horizon. Moreover, further hypotheses of lane widening were proposed and assessed and an improvement in the car pool composition - considering low emission vehicles, according to the latest EC directives - was evaluated. Results showed that the third-lane project realisation allows 31% overall environmental load reduction with respect to the present situation scenario. The environmental impact due to the construction and maintenance phases is negligible when compared with the operation phase. The proposed theoretical further lane widening doesn't add an), substantial environmental load variation. When considering car pool composition improvement, the third-lane scenario results even in higher environmental load percentage reduction with respect to the present situation scenario.Carbon dioxide is the most abundant waste produced by human activities. Its further accumulation in the atmosphere must be avoided in order to prevent risky situations derived by the reinforcement of the greenhouse effect, to which CO2 is estimated to be the major contributor. The energy production short- and medium-term scenarios, demonstrate t
hat fossil fuels will be the major energy source for the coming 30-40 years. Therefore, our Society has to cope with the increase of the carbon dioxide emission, if more energy has to be used for ameliorating the standard of life of emergent and developing country populations. New technologies for carbon dioxide control are necessary, that imply its recovery from various sources. Effective separation technologies are available, and their cost is known to depend upon the concentration and quality of the source gas, and the required efficacy of separation. Also, the end use of recovered carbon dioxide depends on its quality. For example, use for the food (drink) sector, demands carbon dioxide characterized by a high degree of purity, without toxic pollutants. Only selected, pure sources can, thus, be used to this end. Supercritical carbon dioxide is now finding larger and larger utilization in several industrial sectors, as solvent and reagent. The use Of CO2 for methane reforming is an interesting application that would avoid CO2 separation after extraction of LNG. In fact, should it be found a suitable catalyst or a technology for low temperature, effective conversion of CH4, and CO2 into syn-gas, the direct conversion of LNG at the extraction site into liquid fuels as methanol or gasoline would reduce the distribution costs with respect to methane separation and pumping. The utilization of carbon dioxide by other sectors of the chemical industry may contribute to implement greener synthetic technologies with respect to existing ones, and to reduce the carbon dioxide emission in terms of waste reduction at source, solvent shift, more direct synthetic procedures, energy saving. Mimicking natural processes for synthetic purposes can also address the development of innovative syntheses with CO2 emission reduction. The fixation Of CO2 by algae (micro and macro) is a promising area that is worth to investigate for assessing the potential of aquatic biomass as source of fuels. The assessment of the real amount of avoided carbon dioxide is not an easy and simple exercise. It is not only represented by the amount of recycled/fixed CO2: the fraction of carbon dioxide not produced by implementing an innovative synthetic technology must also be taken into account. The Life Cycle Assessment methodology is the proper toot for such evaluation. Incentives are needed for running appropriate integrated programmes aimed at assessing the potential of the utilization option.There is increasing concern about landfilling of biodegradable wastes. Therefore, biological treatment processes such as composting and biogasification have been considered as alternative strategies for managing those wastes. In this work, life cycle assessment was employed to compare the environmental impacts of landfilling, composting, and biological treatment of municipal solid waste in Sao Paulo City, Brazil. Energy consumption, recovered resources, and emissions to air and water were quantified and analyzed in terms of their potential contribution to global warming, acidification, and nutrient enrichment impact. The results demonstrated that processes that require high levels of energy consumption, such as wastewater treatment, play an important role in the outcome of environmental impact potentials. It was found that the landfilling of all waste is generally the worst strategy from 
an environmental point of view. However, significant reductions in the resulting impacts can be accomplished through biogasification and composting of the biodegradable fraction. Regarding composting, the application of a biofilter for gas treatment reduced significantly the gaseous emissions. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Analysis of economic data pertinent to the existing municipal wastewater treatment plants (MWTP) in Greece is presented. This information is important when budgeting for future plants. The data include land usage and the costs for construction, operation and maintenance of the form y = ax(b), where a and b are calculated coefficients. Equations for cost and land use were produced for specific systems. Personnel and energy aspects are analysed as they are major contributors to operational cost. A life cycle analysis (LCA) of plants is undertaken. The results of such an analysis should suggest the most preferable technology under given circumstances. Thus, under high energy costs and low level of automation and operation, at low F/M ratios, conventional activated sludge systems are relatively not cost effective. In addition, for cost of land less than US$30 per m(2), waste stabilisation ponds are cost effective subjected to minor earthworks.The analysis of different removal and recovery techniques for nutrients in urine shows that in many cases recovery is energetically more efficient than removal and new-production from natural resources. Considering only the running electricity and fossil energy requirements for the traditional way of wastewater treatment and fertiliser production, the following specific energy requirements can be calculated: 45 MJ kg(N)(-1) for denitrification in a WWTP, 49 MJ kg(P)(-1) for P-precipitation in a WWTP, 45 MJ kg(N)(-1) for N-fertiliser and 29 MJ kg(P)(-1) for P-fertiliser production. These numbers are higher than the values derived for thermal volume reduction of urine (35 MJ kg(N)(-1) for eliminating 90% water) or production of struvite (102 MJ kg(N)(-1), including 2.2 kg P). Considering only the electricity and fossil energy for the traditional way of wastewater treatment and fertiliser production, the energy value of 1 PE urine is 0.87 MJ PE-1 d(-1) (fertiliser value: 0.44, wastewater treatment: 0.43 MJ PE-1 d(-1)). A more detailed life cycle assessment (LCA) of the entire urine collection system, including the required materials and the environmental burden, support the energy analysis. The LCA compares conventional denitrification in a wastewater treatment plant with collecting urine in households, reducing the volume by evaporation and using it as a multi-nutrient fertiliser. The primary energy consumption for recovery and reuse of urine, including the nutrients N, P and K, is calculated with 65 MJ kg(N)(-1), compared with 153 MJ kg(N)(-1) derived for the conventional 'recycling over the atmosphere'.In this paper the sustainability of current available and future nitrogen removal systems has been investigated. For the assessment of the sustainability six indicators were used; sludge production; energy consumption, resource recovery; area requirement and N2O-emission. For the evaluation of the position of the individual nitrogen removal systems in the anthropogenic nitrogen cycle a broad outline for a life-cycle analysis has been presented.In the wastewater industry, dec
ision-makers lack access to an environmental tool that can assist in further informing the non-financial analysis of a system. Such a tool should incorporate impacts beyond the effluent quality and look at the supporting processes of a plant as well as plant specific operations. Life Cycle Assessment can provide the means to fill a gap in pertinent information towards more sustainable decision-making. The project "Best Practice LCA in the Wastewater Industry" is commissioned by the CRC for Waste Management and Pollution Control at UNSW with representatives from Sydney Water Corporation (SWC), NSW Department of Land and Water Conservation and the NSW Department of Public Works. Two case studies were researched to provide a post-implementation review of changes in wastewater treatment. Case study 1: The conversion from chlorine gas to hypochlorite and UV disinfection has been completed for several inland wastewater plants at SWC. A review of operational data for each of the options has been incorporated into an LCA of each technology. Under efficient dosing conditions, disinfection with the hypochlorite system has the minimum environmental impact. Case study 2 deals with the conversion from anaerobic to aerobic digestion. Aerobic digestion minimises release of nutrients into a sidestream to be further treated in the plant. However conversion results in more biosolids production and higher electricity requirements. This study includes a consideration of the environmental impacts of biosolids production and application. On the basis of the extended system boundary including consideration of reflux composition, energy requirements and biosolids quality to potentially offset fertiliser production, anaerobic digestion performs best in 6 out of 9 impact categories. These results suggest that environmental LCA has a role in informing decision-making on unit process and treatment train selection by quantifying aspects on non-financial criteria. Also, improvement potentials are foreshadowed but not detailed.The search for sustainable ways of living has necessitated a new look at the way in which water services are provided. The new paradigm includes whole-system perspectives for each of the primary criteria groups: social, environmental and economic. Whilst Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) techniques have been used successfully for products, they are much less used to assess processes. Nonetheless there is much to learn from the use of LCA for a much wider range of applications. An application is described whereby LCA has been used to determine energy, mass flows and environmental impacts for a number of sewer-related options for handling sewer solids, using the SimaPro software. This work has been part of a wider study to provide enhanced decision support systems for water utilities. The metabolism of a city can be seen as the process of transforming all the materials and commodities for sustaining the city's economic activity. This paper attempts to incorporate resource and material flow analysis to investigate Taipei area's urban sustainability due to urban construction. The material flows (sand and gravel, cement, asphalt, and construction waste) during the past decade for constructing major urban engineering projects such as roads, bridge, MRT, flood prevention projects, storm drainage and sewerage pipes, and buildings are analyzed for Taipei metropol
is. In order to evaluate the contributory value of material flows to the ecological economic system, emergy (spelled with an M; previously known as embodied energy) evaluation is incorporated in this research. A framework of indicators including categories of: (1) intensity of resource consumption; (2) inflow/outflow ratio; (3) urban livability; (4) efficiency of urban metabolism; and (5) emergy evaluation of urban metabolism is developed for measuring the effect of urban construction on Taipei's sustainability. The consumption of sand and gravel is approximately 90% of the total construction material used, and the generation of construction waste in Taipei exceeds 30 x 10(6) ton per annum. The emergy value of construction materials in Taipei is equivalent to 46% of total emergy use. Although the livability in Taipei has improved, the significant amount of construction waste remains an important environmental issue. The recycling and reuse of construction waste can not only create circular pattern of urban metabolism but is also vital to the sustainable development of Taipei. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.An urban metabolism analysis is a means of quantifying the overall fluxes of energy, water, material, and wastes into and out of an urban region. Analysis of urban metabolism can provide important information about energy efficiency, material cycling, waste management, and infrastructure in urban systems. This paper presents the first urban metabolism of a Canadian urban region, and possibly the first for a North American city. It also makes a first attempt at comparing the urban metabolisms of a few cities worldwide. The most noticeable feature of the Greater Toronto Area metabolism is that inputs have generally increased at higher rates than outputs over the study years (1987 and 1999). The inputs of water and electricity have increased marginally less than the rate of population growth (25.6%), and estimated inputs for food and gasoline have increased by marginally greater percentages than the population. With the exception of CO2 emissions, the measured output parameters are growing slower than the population; residential solid wastes and wastewater loadings have actually decreased in absolute terms over the 12 year period from 1987 to 1999.
 Among other foci, recent research on adaptation to climatic variability and change has sought to evaluate the merit of adaptation generally, as well as the suitability of particular adaptations. Additionally, there is a need to better understand the likely uptake of adaptations. For example, diversification is one adaptation that has been identified as a potential farm-level response to climatic variability and change, but its adoption by farmers for this reason is not well understood. This paper serves two purposes. The first is to document the adoption of crop diversification in Canadian prairie agriculture for the period 1994-2002, reflect upon its strengths and limitations for managing a variety of risks, including climatic ones, and gauge its likely adoption by producers in response to anticipated climate change. The second purpose is to draw on this case to refine our current understanding of climate change adaptation more generally. Based upon data from over 15 000 operations, it was determined that individual farms have become more specialized in their cropping patterns since 1994, and this trend is unlikely to change in the immediate future, notwithstanding anticipated climate change and the known risk-reducing benefits of crop diversification. More broadly, the analysis suggests that 'suitable' and even 'possible' climate change adaptations need to be more rigorously assessed in order to understand their wider strengths and limitations.In order for a scientific innovation to reach a wide audience it needs to travel through diverse networks and be understandable to a variety of people. This paper focuses on networks of stakeholders involved in the diffusion of seasonal climate forecasts. It is argued that understanding stakeholder networks is key to determining the opportunities and barriers to the flow of forecast information, which could enable more focused forecast dissemination. Lesotho is used as a case study where Stakeholder Thematic Networks (STNs) are used as a novel method for investigating forecast dissemination. STNs enable qualitative information to be analysed through semi-quantitative mapping of relationships that enable the networks and scales of linkages to be visualised. This illustrates the types of nodes and channels of seasonal forecast information flow and so enables existing or emerging patterns of dissemination to be uncovered. Sub-networks that exist for purposes other than climate information dissemination are identified as salient sub-networks for focusing development of future forecast dissemination. These existing sub-networks enable stakeholder needs to be addressed and decrease the need for new networks to be established. By using these sub-networks, information relating to climate variability can be mainstreamed into existing development pathways. This is critical to recognise if innovations relating to climate information are to be used to improve climate change adaptation.The fact that climate change has been so neglected by the mainstream development community should not be a surprise. Not only because most environmental issues have yet to be effectively mainstreamed within development policy and practice, but because climate change raises a series of uncomfortable challenges for the theory and practice of development. By not thinking beyond convenient frames of interpretation, we miss an impor
tant opportunity to effect more substantive change in preventing climate change from further immiserising the lives of the poor, by critically revisiting the role of conventional development strategies in producing the problem in the first place. The article develops this Argument by looking at the importance of policy coherence in relation to the policies and, by implication, ecological footprint, of bilateral and multilateral development institutions, the private sector and finally turns to the potential and limitations of the contemporary popularity among donors of climate adaptation strategies.In this paper we develop economic measures of vulnerability to climate change with and without adaptation in agricultural production systems. We implement these measures using coupled, site-specific ecosystem and economic simulation models. This modeling approach has two key features needed to study the response of agricultural production systems to climate change: it represents adaptation as an endogenous, non-marginal economic response to climate change; and it provides the capability to represent the spatial variability in bio-physical and economic conditions that interact with adaptive responses. We apply this approach to the dryland grain production systems of the Northern Plains region of the United States. The results support the hypothesis that the most adverse impacts on net returns distributions tend to occur in the areas with the poorest resource endowments and when mitigating effects of CO2 fertilization and adaptation are absent. We find that relative and absolute measures of vulnerability depend on complex interactions between climate change, CO2 level, adaptation, and economic conditions such as relative output prices. The relationship between relative vulnerability and resource endowments varies with assumptions about climate change, adaptation, and economic conditions. Vulnerability measured with respect to an absolute threshold is inversely related to resource endowments in all cases investigated.Seasonal climate forecasts have been promoted as a means to increase the resilience of marginal groups in Africa. The manifestations of this are still to be seen. This paper argues that successful dissemination and adoption of the forecast requires an in-depth profile of the characteristics and needs of user groups. The case study of a mountainous village in southern Lesotho is used to highlight the decisions which one group of marginal users-smallholder farmers-might make in response to the forecast. A participatory role-play exercise explores what information households presently receive and how new climate forecast information could be integrated into seasonal decision making. Results show that there are a number of low-input options available to these farmers for responding to the forecast. Adoption, however, is going to require repeated exposure to the forecast in conjunction with forecast development that is suited to users' needs. The case study is linked back to the larger scale by suggesting paths that seasonal climate forecast development could take if it is to contribute to improving livelihood sustainability among marginal groups.Range expansion from Pleistocene refugia and anthropogenic influences contribute to the present distribution pattern of Arabidopsis thaliana. We scored a genome-wide set of CAPSs and found two mark
ers with an east-west geographic distribution across the Eurasian range of the species. Regions around the two SNPs were sequenced in 98 accessions, including newly collected plants from Middle Asia and Western Siberia. These regions correspond to a gene (similar to1500 bp) and a noncoding region (similar to500 bp) 300 kbp apart on chromosome 2. Nucleotide diversities, pi, of the two sequenced fragments were 0.0032 and 0.0130. The haplotypes of both sequences belonged to one of two groups: a rather uniform "Asian" and a more variable "European" haplotype group, on the basis of non-disjunct clusters of SNPs. Recombination between "Asian" and "European" haplotypes occurs where they meet. Especially in the "European" haplotype, many rare SNP variants representing independent mutations are scattered among the shared haplotype-specific SNPs. This agrees with previous suggestions of two large haplotype groups in A. thaliana and the post-glacial colonization of central Europe from the east and the west. A clear correlation between climatic factors and the haplotype distribution may reflect the dispersal history rather than local climate adaptation. The pattern of SNIP variation within the contiguous sequences explains why only a minority of SNPs selected across the genome show evidence of this geographic pattern.Estimating the likelihood of future climate change has become a priority objective within the research community. This is the case because of the advancement of science, because of user demand and because of the central role played by climate prediction in guiding adaptation policy. But are probabilities what climate policy really needs? This article reviews three key questions: (1) Why might we (not) need probabilities of climate change? (2) What are the problems in estimating probabilities? (3) How are researchers estimating probabilities? These questions are analysed within the context of adaptation to climate change. Overall, we conclude that the jury is still out on whether probabilities are useful for climate adaptation policy. The answer is highly context dependent and thus is a function of the goals and motivation of the policy analysis, the unit of analysis, timescale and the training of the analyst. Probability assessment in the context of climate change is always subjective, conditional and provisional. There are various problems in estimating the probability of future climate change, but reflexive human behaviour (i.e. actions explicitly influenced by information) is largely intractable in the context of prediction. Nonetheless, there is considerable scope to develop novel methodologies that combine conditional probabilities with scenarios and which are relevant for climate decision-making.There is growing concern for the capacity of urban and rural communities to manage current water shortages and to prepare for shortages that may accompany predicted changes in climate. In this paper, concepts relating to the notion of climate adaptation and particularly "capacity building" are used to elucidate several determinants of community-level capacity for water management. These concepts and criteria are then used to interpret empirically derived insights relating to local management of water shortages in Ontario, Canada. General determinants of water-related community capacity relate to upper tier political and institutional arrang
ements; the characteristics of, and relationships among, pertinent agencies, groups, or individuals involved in water management; and the adequacy of financial, human, information, and technical resources. The case analysis illustrates how general factors play out in local experience. The findings point to geographically specific factors that influence the effectiveness of management. Key factors include collaboration between water managers, clarification of agency roles and responsibilities, integration of water management and land-use planning, and recognition and participation of both urban and rural stakeholders, whose sensitivities to water shortages are spatially and temporally variable.A newly developed method for sprinkling (climate-adaptation) at woodyards was tested in a two-part spruce pulpwood-storage experiment during the summer 2001. Four storage alternatives were evaluated during a storage period of eight weeks: climate-adapted sprinkling and dry-stored storage of debarked and undebarked spruce pulpwood. The quality of the pulps made from logs stored under sprinkled conditions were generally comparable to pulp made from fresh pulpwood with one important exception, they provided lower brightness. The majority of the brightness losses occurred during the last four weeks of storage while brightness changes during the First four weeks were relatively small. The pulps made from dry-stored pulpwood suffered also from decreased brightness but the strength properties were also generally worse. The experiments were done by application of a new method for experimental grindings on an industrial scale, which was found to work well. It was easy to identify and handle the individual experimental logs.An apple breeding program has been in existence at Balsgard since the late 40 ' s, resulting in several commercially grown cultivars. The most successful among these is ' Aroma ', which has become the second most important cultivar in Sweden. In 1988, pollen of the American apple selection P.R.I. 1858/102 was sent to Balsgard, and applied to emasculated ' Aroma ' flowers. The resulting seedlings proved to have remarkable fruit quality, and several of them were selected for observation trials at Balsgard as well as in some commercial apple orchards. Two of these selections were named ' Frida ' and ' Fredrik ' in May 2003. ' Fri ' means free in Swedish and alludes to the fact that these new cultivars have Vf-based scab resistance, which has so far held up very well in Sweden. Both cultivars produce very aromatic fruits that are picked in late September or early October, reach peak eating quality in November-December and can be stored throughout April. ' Frida ' produces medium-sized fruits with a bright red blush and a somewhat more acidic and refreshing taste then ' Aroma ' itself. ' Fredrik ' produces somewhat smaller fruits that are greenish yellow with orange-red stripes and blush, and an aromatic, somewhat spicy and nutty flavour. Despite great advances in carbon cycle research during the past decade the climatic impact of terrestrial ecosystems is still highly uncertain. Although contemporary studies suggest that the terrestrial biosphere has acted as a net sink to atmospheric carbon during the past two decades, the future role of terrestrial carbon pools is most difficult to foresee. When land use change and forestry activities were in
cluded into the Kyoto Protocol in 1997, the requirements for scientific precision increased significantly. At the same time the political expectations of carbon sequestration as climate mitigation strategy added uncertainties of a social kind to the study of land-atmosphere carbon exchange that have been difficult to address by conventional scientific methods. In this paper I explore how the failure to take into account the effects of direct human activity in scientific projections of future terrestrial carbon storage has resulted in a simplified appreciation of the risks embedded in a global carbon sequestration scheme. I argue that the social limits to scientific analysis must be addressed in order to accommodate these risks in future climate governance and to enable continued scientific authority in the international climate regime.This paper discusses the limitations, omissions and value judgements of the application of conventional economic analysis in the evaluation of climate change mitigation policies. It is argued that these have biased the result of the assessment models towards the recommendation of less aggressive mitigation strategies. Consequently, this paper questions whether they provide appropriate policy recommendations. The unequal distribution of rights implicitly assumed in conventional economic analyses applied to climate change is questioned and an alternative approach considering a distribution of rights consistent with sustainable development is put forward. Finally, the points that an analysis consistent with sustainable development should take into account are presented.Sequestration of Carbon in Soil Organic Matter (SOCSOM) in Senegal is a multi-disciplinary development project planned and refined through two international workshops. The project was implemented by integrating a core of international experts in remote sensing, biogeochemical modeling, community socio-economic assessments, and carbon measurements in a fully collaborative manner with Senegal organizations, national scientists, and local knowledge and expertise. The study addresses the potential role developing countries in semi-arid areas can play in climate mitigation activities. Multiple benefits to smallholders could accrue as a result of management practices to re-establish soil carbon content lost because of land use changes or management practices that are not sustainable. The specific importance for the Sahel is because of the high vulnerability to climate change in already impoverished rural societies. The project focuses on four objectives in specific locations across the agroecological zones of Senegal. These objectives are: use of soil sampling and biogeochemical modeling to quantify the biophysical potential for carbon sequestration and to determine the sensitivity of the carbon stocks to various management and climate scenarios, to evaluate the socio-economic and cultural requirements necessary for successful project implementation directed toward an aggregation of smallholders to sequester around 100,000 t carbon (C), to support capacity building to develop a Carbon Specialist Team, and to initiate extrapolation from site-specific project areas to the Sahel region and the national level. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.As part of its climate change mitigation initiative, BP is evaluating technologies for the separation and
 capture of CO2 from combustion sources, for subsequent geologic storage. Ansaldo Fuel Cells S.p.A. is developing molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC) technology targeted at industrial applications from 50 kW to 10 MW. This paper describes the conceptual design of a hybrid MCFC system to generate power and simultaneously capture CO2 from small (<10 MW) gas turbine exhaust streams. Initial modeling studies indicated that a 1.6 MW MCFC could reduce the CO2 emissions from a 4.6 MW gas turbine by 50% on a per kWh basis. Experimental studies are in progress to understand the system behaviour, operating envelope and impact of contaminants. Initial data from these investigations are presented, which confirm that the fuel cell can operate at sub-optimal CO2 levels with limited loss in power and efficiency. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Calculating greenhouse gas emissions reductions from climate change mitigation projects requires construction of a baseline that sets emissions levels that would have occurred without the project. This paper describes a standardized multiproject methodology for setting baselines, represented by the emissions rate (kg C/kWh), for electric power projects. A standardized methodology would reduce the transaction costs of projects. The most challenging aspect of setting multiproject emissions rates is determining the vintage and types of plants to include in the baseline and the stringency of the emissions rates to be considered, in order to balance the desire to encourage no- or low-carbon projects while maintaining environmental integrity. The criteria for selecting power plants to include in the baseline depend on characteristics of both the project and the electricity grid it serves. Two case studies illustrate the application of these concepts to the electric power grids in eastern India and South Africa. We use hypothetical, but realistic, climate change projects in each country to illustrate the use of the multiproject methodology, and note the further research required to fully understand the implications of the various choices in constructing and using these baselines. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.There are two main policy responses to climate: prevention of climate change (mitigation) through reducing emissions and coping with its effects (adaptation). Mitigation has been given more priority in climate negotiations to date. Because the impacts of climate change are likely to increase in the coming years and there is growing realisation that vulnerable countries and communities will be disproportionately adversely affected, much more attention is now being paid to adaptation than was previously the case, particularly by development organisations. Defining climate change and adaptation carefully is critical to ensuring the success of actions promoting how adaptation can be mainstreamed in development. Narrow definitions of climate change, which ignore climate variability and donor focus on looking at the "global environmental benefits" of adaptation will mean that the adaptation needs of the most vulnerable will not be met.Forestry-based carbon sinks are an important option for improving rural livelihoods, while also mitigating global climate change. Yet they are strongly opposed by major environmental organisations as an ineffective distraction that could hurt the poor. This article argues that i
nsights into the social aspects of forestry can be used to design sink interventions that have the potential to bring huge benefits to rural people, their basic land, water and biomass resources, climate change mitigation and resilience to the impacts of global warming. These benefits would be enhanced by various changes to the rules that apply to sinks under the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism.The focus of the present paper is on joint implementation (JI) projects between countries in Western and Eastern Europe and especially on the problems of constructing credible references (baselines). A number of the present EU countries are anticipated to have severe problems in meeting their greenhouse gas reduction commitments and they have already announced that they shall take advantage of JI in this connection. As stated in the Kyoto Protocol, JI emission reductions must be real and measurable. However, in most cases the reductions obtained by a JI project do not occur at the project site but elsewhere in the energy system. Therefore, when a number of JI projects are implemented concurrently and other changes in the energy system take place over time, there is no way to measure the reductions obtained by individual projects. Because the emission reduction obtained is a property of the entire energy system, it cannot be estimated a priori on the basis of a project baseline alone. A baseline must refer to the national energy system of which the project is a part. It is argued in this paper that baselines should be derived from national energy systems databases and models, which serve to ensure that JI projects effectively contribute to the fulfillment of the Kyoto Protocol objectives. In addition, they should provide governments with comprehensive energy information systems needed to address long-term climate mitigation and energy demand and supply issues in a rational, least-cost manner. Compared to other climate mitigation costs and the costs of failure to meet the Kyoto commitments the costs involved in the preparation of the databases needed and the implementation of systems analysis and documentation programs will be small. If these costs are carried by national governments, the investors in JI projects will benefit from lower transaction costs. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Soil carbon sequestration could meet at most about one-third of the current yearly increase in atmospheric CO2-carbon, but the duration of the effect would be limited, with significant impacts lasting only 20-50 years. Coupled with this limited duration, increases in population and per-capita energy demand mean that soil carbon sequestration could play only a minor role in closing the difference between predicted and target carbon emissions by 2100. However, if atmospheric CO2 concentrations are to be stabilized at reasonable levels (450-650 ppm), drastic reductions in carbon emissions will be required over the next 20-30 years. Given this, carbon sequestration should form a central role in any portfolio of measures to reduce atmospheric CO2 concentrations over this crucial period, while new energy technologies are developed and implemented. International agreements, such as the Kyoto Protocol, encourage soil carbon sequestration and could be used to formulate soil carbon sequestration polices. Such policies need to take account of othe
r environmental impacts as well as political, economic and societal needs, so that they form part of a raft of measures encouraging sustainable development. Of the carbon sequestration options available, those of a 'win-win' nature, that is, those that increase carbon stocks at the same time as improving other aspects of the environment, and those that protect or enhance existing stocks ('no regrets' implementation) show the greatest promise in meeting these goals.One of the most contentious issues in the debate over global climate change is the perceived divide between interests and obligations of developed and developing countries. Equity demands that developed countries act first to reduce emissions. That principle is embedded in the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which sets binding emission targets for developed countries only. With the Protocol now likely to enter into force, the focus will turn increasingly to the question of developing country emissions. Turkey's high rate of energy-related carbon emissions growth is expected to accelerate, with emissions climbing from 60 million tons in 2002 to almost 220 million tons in 2020. Carbon intensity in Turkey is higher than the western developed country average. Energy-intensive, inefficient industries remain under government control with soft budget constraints, contributing to undisciplined energy use. Planned industrial privatizations may close the oldest and most inefficient operations and modernize surviving ones. Elimination of energy price subsidies could stimulate energy conservation, reducing energy and emissions growth below current projections. This article reviews energy consumption and climate change mitigation in Turkey.This paper describes the research actions put in place by the Directorate General of Research of the European Commission (EC) in the field of the mitigation of CO2 emissions. Global policy for climate change mitigation and the associated energy policy considerations are presented. The use of renewables and fossil fuels within the overall energy mix are discussed, leading to European Union research policy for fossil fuel carbon management options. The European Union's (EU) current and proposed RTD project portfolio for CO2 capture and sequestration is then given. An overview of the involvement by the EC in complementary international cooperation and coordination activities is also presented.Chemical process synthesis methods and tools developed over the last several decades have reached a level of maturity that have provided advantage to practitioners in an environment of increased costs and shrinking margins. Future growth within the chemical process industries is likely to involve even keener competition with greater impact from factors such as raw material and energy availability, climate change mitigation, sustainability, and inherent security. The future will probably see an expanded role for the systematic generation process synthesis paradigm, including an increased interdependency with process and catalytic chemistry on one hand and operability and control expertise on the other. Advances from artificial intelligence may inspire new process synthesis paradigms incorporating more effective representations of the underlying physical sciences and engineering art, new social concerns, new design
 strategies, and new computerized implementations. The future may also see a collaboration of the systematic generation and superstructure optimization process synthesis paradigms in which systematic generation is used to create the superstructure for simultaneous discrete and continuous variable optimization. As the resulting process designs will certainly be evaluated from additional points of view including social considerations, superstructure optimization will need to produce families of good designs for multi-criteria Pareto optimization. There are many challenges, but continued progress will be made and these challenges will be met. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper outlines a methodological framework for the economic evaluation Of CO2 emissions abatement policies and measures in the residential sector, taking into consideration both economic and social costs/benefits. The approach includes two stages: first, the measures under consideration are evaluated on the basis of a cost effectiveness analysis, which takes into account only the related net financial costs, thus highlighting win-win actions (i.e. measures presenting an economic benefit for end users without the provision of any economic subsidies or other similar policies); and second, the measures are re-evaluated using an integrated cost benefit analysis (where both the private and external costs/benefits are taken into account). The economic performance of the measures examined incorporates the effects of a variety of parameters, such as the region's climate, size and age of buildings, etc., which significantly affect the resulting ranking. The implementation of this framework in the Greek residential sector identified and prioritized a significant emissions reduction potential, which could be achieved with win-win measures and/or interventions that present a net social benefit. Measures with negative economic cost but positive net social benefit for the majority of the buildings examined include: (i) regular inspection of central heating boilers, (ii) use of thermostats in central heating boilers, (iii) scaling of openings, (iv) installation of solar collectors for hot water etc. The monetization of environmental benefits is shown to provide a powerful tool for highlighting priority actions in the context of a climate change mitigation policy. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All tights reserved.Consequences in the distant future-such as those from climate change-have little Value today when discounted using conventional rates. This result contradicts our "gut feeling" about such problems and often leads to hoc application of lower rates for valuations over longer horizons-a step facilitated by Confusion and disagreement over the correct rate even over short horizons. We review the theory and intuition behind the choice of discount rates now and. importantly. the impact of likely variation in rates in the future. Correlated changes in future rates imply that the distant future Should be discounted at much lower rates than suggested by the Current rate, thereby raising the value of future consequences - regardless of Opinions concerning the current rate. Using historic data to quantity the likely changes and correlation in changes in future rates. we find that future valuations rise by a factor of many thousands at horizons of 300 years or more, almost doubling t
he expected present Value of climate mitigation benefits relative to constant 4% discounting. Ironically,, uncertainty about future rates reduces the ratio Of valutions based oil alternate choices of the current rate. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Equity and efficiency dimensions of global time flexibility in GHG emission reduction are analyzed with an integrated assessment model. Global time flexibility is justifiable to some extent as found in previous studies by Wigley et al. Nevertheless, it does not necessarily serve as a rationale to delay emission reduction commitment and efforts of developed countries as they suggested. The time flexibility can be saved for developing countries, and it must be so in equity consideration; early reduction by developed countries eases burden of developing countries in both time and emission quantity dimensions. This equity-oriented argument is robust against time and spatial efficiency consideration, since the apparent benefits that might accrue to developed countries from delaying reductions will by no means be transferred to far distant future developing countries for mitigation of and adaptation to climate change. The analysis thus support entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol without participation of key low income developing countries such as China and India with legally binding quantified targets in the First Commitment Period from 2008 to 2012. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrialized countries may reduce their costs of meeting carbon constraints if they penalize fuels not only on the basis of their carbon intensity but also on the basis of their import-export status. Simulations of these policies show that participating industrialized countries can reduce their costs and hence increase their willingness to participate. However, they will impose higher costs on the world, because the most carbon-intensive fuels will not be taxed most heavily. Such a bias creates a "how" inefficiency in addition to the "where" and "when" inefficiency created by current international agreements to control greenhouse gas emissions. Although countries have always had such incentives, these considerations must be more fully acknowledged in today's energy markets, after September 2001. (C) 2003 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.Stabilization of atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations will require significant cuts in electric sector carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The ability to capture and sequester CO2 in a manner compatible with today's fossil-fuel based power generation infrastructure offers a potentially low-cost contribution to a larger climate change mitigation strategy. The extent to which carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) technologies might lower the cost of CO2 control in competitive electric markets will depend on how they displace existing generating units in a system's dispatch order, as well as on their competitiveness with abatement alternatives. This paper assumes a perspective intermediate to the more common macro-economic or plant-level analyses of CCS and employs an electric system dispatch model to examine how natural gas prices, sunk capital, and the availability of coal plant retrofits affect CCS economics. Despite conservative assumptions about cost, CCS units are seen to provide significant reductions in baseload CO2 emissions at a carbon price bel
ow 100$/tC. In addition, the ability to retrofit coal plants for post-combustion CO2 capture is not seen to lower the overall cost of CO2 abatement. (C) 2002 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Biospheric carbon sinks and sources can be included in attempts to meet emission reduction targets during the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. Forest management, cropland management, grazing land management and re-vegetation are allowable activities under Article 3.4 of the Kyoto Protocol. Soil carbon sinks (and sources) can, therefore, be included under these activities. In this paper, the role of croplands in the European carbon budget and the potential for carbon sequestration in European croplands are reviewed. The global context is then considered. Croplands are estimated to be the largest biospheric source of carbon lost to the atmosphere in Europe each year, but the cropland estimate is the most uncertain among all land-use types. It is estimated that European croplands (for Europe as far east as the Urals) lose 300 Mt C per year. The mean figure for the European Union is estimated to be 78 (S.D. 37) Mt C per year. There is significant potential within Europe to decrease the flux of carbon to the atmosphere from cropland, and for cropland management to sequester soil carbon, relative to the amount of carbon stored in cropland soils at present. The biological potential for carbon storage in European (EU15) cropland is of the order of 90-120 Mt C per year with a range of options available including reduced and zero tillage, set-aside, perennial crops and deep rooting crops, more efficient use of organic amendments (animal manure, sewage sludge, cereal straw, compost), improved rotations, irrigation, bioenergy crops, extensification, organic farming, and conversion of arable land to grassland or woodland. The sequestration potential, considering only constraints on land-use, amounts of raw materials and available land, is up to 45 Mt C per year. The realistic potential and the conservative achievable; potentials may be considerably lower than the biological potential due to socioeconomic and other constraints, with a realistically achievable potential estimated to be about 20% of the biological potential. As with other carbon sequestration options, potential impacts on non-CO2 trace gases need to be factored in. If carbon sequestration in croplands is to be used in helping to meet emission reduction targets for the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, the changes in soil carbon must be measurable and verifiable. Changes in soil carbon can be difficult to measure over a five-year commitment period and this has implications for Kyoto accounting and verification. Currently, most countries can hope to achieve only a low level of verifiability during the first commitment period, whilst those with the best-developed national carbon accounting systems will be able to deliver an intermediate level of verifiability. Very stringent definitions of verifiability would require verification that would be prohibitively expensive for any country. Carbon sequestration in soil has a finite potential and is non-permanent. Soil carbon sequestration is a riskier long-term strategy for climate mitigation than direct emission reduction and can play only a minor role in closing carbon emission gaps by 2100. However, if atmospheric CO2 concentrati
ons are to be stabilised at reasonable levels (450-650 ppm), drastic reductions in carbon emissions will be required over the next 20-30 years. Given this, carbon sequestration should form a central role in any portfolio of measures to reduce atmospheric CO2 concentrations over the next 20-30 years, whilst new energy technologies are developed and implemented. Given that improved agricultural management often has a range of other environmental and economic benefits in addition to climate mitigation potential, such "win-win" strategies to improve soil carbon storage are attractive and should be implemented as part of integrated sustainability policies. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Climate change issues have been considered some of the most complex and messy situations which the decision sciences face. In the last decade many countries have carried out studies related to climate change mitigation. The relevance of the outcomes of such studies depends on how well technical analysis, the priorities of the decision makers and technical/political feasibility are integrated. This paper focuses on a framework suggested by the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) to study the costs and impacts of national policies for abating greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions. It illustrates how the quest for the inclusion of MCDA assessment in national greenhouse abatement costing studies can, without departing from the established analysis framework, be a pretext to provide a process which enhances stakeholder participation, validation, and ownership of the planning process. Such a process was used in a national study in Peru. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The Kyoto Protocol of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change seeks to achieve climate stability and sustainable development through global cooperation. Even with spectacular advances in climate science, projected economic and health benefits of greenhouse gas mitigation, and presence of all the key elements for an effective treaty in the Kyoto Protocol, climate change negotiations remain inconclusive. Arguably, this is so because a widespread concern on equity is yet to be resolved. Here I reexamine the equity in climate change treaty. Political leadership, scientific community and civil society in several nations have maintained that the democratic norms for climate governance are a prerequisite for crafting a successful climate change treaty. Principle of equal p er capita emission entitlements is now emerging as the key option beyond current impasse. Although not required under the Kyoto Protocol, several developing nations are taking responsible action to mitigate climate change. Principle of equal per capita emission entitlements is a just solution to successfully implement climate treaty aimed at climate change mitigation, adaptation and sustainable development. Without a full and unequivocal commitment to equity and democratic governance by a cohesive humanity, any international climate change treaty will have only limited utility.The overall objectives of energy-related environmental policies in Turkey are to ensure sufficient, reliable and economic energy supplies to support sustainable economical and social development while protecting and improving the environment. The country's environmental policy considers that energy policy should take into a
ccount environmental problems and that a balance should be found between increases in energy demand are required for economic development and environmental concerns. Turkey's high rate of energy-related carbon emissions growth is expected to accelerate, with emissions climbing from 60 million tons in 2002 to almost 220 million tons in 2020. Carbon intensity in Turkey is higher than the western developed country average. Energy-intensive, inefficient industries remain under government control with soft budged constraints, contributing to undisciplined energy use. Planned industrial privatisations may close the oldest and most inefficient operations and modernize surviving ones. Elimination of energy price subsidies could stimulate energy conservation, reducing energy and emissions growth below current projections. This paper reviews energy consumption and climate change mitigation in Turkey.This contribution to the Journal of Cleaner Production special issue 'Applications of Industrial Ecology' is based upon an extensive literature review. which produced four criteria to characterise research on the concept of industrial ecology (IE). The criteria are (1) material and energy flows, (2) systems improvement, (3) systems adaptation and (4) change management. The criteria were analysed against the six subject areas of the Technology and Climate Change (CLIMTECH) Research Programme in Finland to identify the applications of the concept of industrial ecology. The results of the analysis contribute (a) to the debate on the characteristics of the emerging concept of IE, (b) show IE characteristics of a large Finnish research project in the field of climate change mitigation and (c) invite scholars in the field to study the observed unclear and fuzzy role of the concept of IE in practical research project work. Responses to this article are encouraged for publication in the future issues of Journal of Cleaner Production. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The current century-an era of environmental awareness-requires energy resources to satisfy the world's future energy demands. We can use current energy use scenarios to help us to understand how energy systems could change. Such scenarios are not an exercise in prophecy; rather they are designed to challenge our thinking in order to make better decisions today. The conventional modeling approach tends to extrapolate changes in energy consumption from historical trends; however, technology innovation sometimes causes drastic reforms in energy systems in the industrial, commercial, residential and transportation sectors. The economic aspects are another key issue to be considered in order to understand future changes in energy systems. The quantity of the energy supply is set to meet the price of the energy demand of end users. This occurs on the condition that the price of the energy supply equates with the price on the demand side under the market mechanism. This paper reviews the various issues associated with the energy-economic model and its application to national energy policies, renewable energy systems, and the global environment. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The global atmosphere is a chemically complex and dynamic system, interacting both internally, mostly within the troposphere and stratosphere, and with the oceans, land, and living organisms. Its composition is ch
anging today, and has also changed markedly over the last 400,000 yr. Current understanding of this complex system resulting from recent observations, theory, and laboratory and modeling studies is reviewed. Also, results are presented from the Integrated Global System Model (IGSM). This is a coupled model of economic development, atmospheric chemistry, climate dynamics and ecosystem processes that explores possible future changes in atmospheric composition and climate. The results of an uncertainty analysis involving hundreds of runs of the IGSM imply that, without specific mitigation policies, the global average surface temperature may rise between 1.0 and 4.9degreesC from 1990 to 2100 (95% confidence limits). Polar temperatures, absent policy, are projected to rise from about 1 to 12degreesC (95% limits) with obvious great risks for high latitude ecosystems and ice sheets at the high end of this range. Analysis of the Kyoto Protocol, and a more stringent climate mitigation policy, shows the difficulties in accounting simply for the effects of other greenhouse gases relative to carbon dioxide. Also, the greatest effect of these policies is to lower the probability of extreme changes as opposed to lowering the medians.The present paper aims to make the energy saving potential provided by waste recycling in Brazil evident by pointing out more specifically the benefits regarding climate change mitigation. In this case, based on the energy saved due to the recycling process of an exogenous amount of waste, we have built two scenarios in order to show the potential for indirectly avoiding CO2 emissions in the country as a result of the recycling process. According to the scenario, 1 Mt and 3.5 Mt of CO2, respectively, would be avoided per year due to solid waste recycling. The international context for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol has been taken into account. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. An increasing number of firms in Asia, Europe, and North America engage in voluntary or mandatory end-of-life product management. Since developments in product take-back are driven by a. mixture of environmental concerns and economic opportunities, the most promising corporate end-of-life strategies create both economic and environmental value. This article introduces a framework that can help managers identify and assess such supply loop strategies. The usefulness of the framework is demonstrated by applying it to two specific supply loops, recycling and reuse of. structural steel sections in the UK construction sector. The case study highlights the importance of supply chain constraints and also shows how lack of data can be a major obstacle to the evaluation of, potential win-win supply loops.Western industrialized societies are inberently unsustainable in their present form because they depend almost exclusively on a finite supply of nonrenewable minerals and fossil fuels. In addition, the resulting wastes cause various environmental problems ranging from widespread ecosystem disruptions to global warming. The most common response to these problems has been to promote technological improvements in eco-efficiency, which Welford defined as "adding maximum value with minimum resource use and minimum pollution." Although constructive, improvements i
n eco-efficiency alone will not guarantee sustainability of industrialized societies because the limited supplies of nonrenewable minerals cannot be extended indefinitely by recycling and substitution, and a transition to renewable and nuclear energy sources would result in significant negative environmental impacts, particularly if deployed on a large scale. In addition, according to the second law of thermodynamics, industrial production technologies have inherently unavoidable environmental impacts. Finally, any hard-won improvements in eco-efficiency will soon be negated if growth in population and consumption is allowed to continue. Consequently, long-term industrial sustainability can be achieved only through a transition to a steady-state economy where the total throughput of matter-energy is kept at a constant and sustainable level. This requires not only improvements in eco-efficiency but also a reassessment of fundamental societal values that erroneously equate material consumption and economic growth with well-being and happiness. (C) 2004 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Environ Prog, 23: 264-270, 2004Three key aspects of the concept of ecomaterials were discussed in the context of material science and industrial ecology. Based on a conceptual framework of industrial ecology (IE), the role of ecomaterials in the tide of sustainable development was determined as a technical operational tool. The discussion about the scope of ecomaterials showed the different standpoints of material science and IE's, which perhaps is the key to the argument about the concept of ecomaterials. Finally, the kernel of ecomaterials was briefly discussed and a generic guideline for ecomaterial design was proposed.Planning transition from conventional mass production, mass consumption, and mass disposal society to JUNKANGATA-SHAKAI (recycling-oriented society), requires detailed and accurate information concerning material flows, especially from the viewpoint of dematerialization. However, as is well known, it is nearly impossible to observe every material flow directly. Hence, the importance of Material Flow Accounting model has increased. In this study, a Material Flow Accounting model using input-output technique is developed for Japanese metal flows. Since the model uses the Input-Output framework, it can be easily integrated with the MIOT (Monetary Input-Output Table) I for further simulation. However, the scope of this study is limited to static framework, because the primal goal is accuracy. The data for year 20 is organized with the developed framework, and gives the following results. Firstly, scraps play significant roles already. Second, non-ferrous metals can be grouped into two types. The first group's destination is mainly construction and machinery and these non-ferrous metals shown the similar pattern of destination as iron. This indicates that the flows can be roughly predicted from the iron flows. The other group shows no uniform trend so that the flows are more difficult to predict than the first group.Exergy analysis is a thermodynamic approach used for analyzing and improving the efficiency of chemical and thermal processes. It has also been extended for life cycle assessment and sustainability evaluation of industrial products and processes. Although these extensions recognize the importance of capital and labor inputs and
 environmental impact, most of them ignore the crucial role that ecosystems play in sustaining all industrial activity. Decisions based on approaches that take nature for granted continue to cause significant deterioration in the ability of ecosystems to provide goods and services that are essential for every human activity. Accounting for nature's contribution is also important for determining the impact and sustainablility of industrial activity. In contrast, emergy analysis, a thermodynamic method from systems ecology, does account for ecosystems, but has encountered a lot of resistance and criticism, particularly from economists, physicists, and engineers. This paper expands the engineering concept of Cumulative Exergy Consumption (CEC) analysis to include the contribution of ecosystems, which leads to the concept of Ecological Cumulative Exergy Consumption (ECEC). Practical challenges in computing ECEC for industrial processes are identified and a formal algorithm based on network algebra is proposed. ECEC is shown to be closely related to emergy, and both concepts become equivalent if the analysis boundary, allocation method, and approach for combining global energy inputs are identical. This insight permits combination of the best features of emergy and exergy analysis, and shows that most of the controversial aspects of emergy analysis need not hinder its use for including the exergetic contribution of ecosystems. Examples illustrate the approach and highlight the potential benefits of accounting for nature's contribution to industrial activity.A lack of understanding of the waste flow of durable goods complicates decision making, especially in the face of technological change and obsolescence. To address the problem, this study considers the modeling of the waste flow of durable goods, using televisions to illustrate the requirements for forecasting and the magnitude of the associated uncertainty. A combination of laws in various jurisdictions and the emergence of alternate technology trajectories for televisions-the flat panel display and phase-out of analogue broadcasting make this example particularly timely. The findings suggest that the reuse of lead-containing cathode ray tube (CRT) glass is worth consideration, even though the adoption of flat panel TV technology will eliminate this controversial waste stream at some point in the future. The findings also indicate the range of the quantity of waste that can be displaced from municipal landfills and requires an alternative collection infrastructure, important information for both developing a collection infrastructure and processing alternatives to extract the residual value of the discarded televisions.The ability to achieve urban sustainability has become an indication of the competence of a municipal government aiming to gain world class status for the city. While both Guangzhou and Hong Kong are Chinese cities having their own formulation of urban sustainability, the implementation details and the actual sustainability blueprints are very different. As a result, the outcomes and prospects for urban sustainability are also different. Hong Kong has adopted a less integrative and more institutionally-oriented approach for urban sustainability. Guangzhou has used the conventional approach to formulate an integrated sustainability programme for its local Agenda 21. Hong Kong
's action plan emphasizes improving coordination, making objective assessments and achieving consistency in policy-making. Guangzhou, on the other hand, emphasizes the meeting of concrete environmental targets. Unfortunately, the new institutional arrangement and monitoring tools adopted by Hong Kong have not been able to achieve the original intent and neither is there the intention to go too far beyond the weak sustainability approach. On the contrary, Guangzhou has planned and attempted to incorporate industrial ecology in its development regime while heavily investing into pollution control programmes and pushing forward a green community programme at the grass-roots level.A methodology is described for the hierarchical design and evaluation of processes to make waste-recycled feeds that can be exchanged, thereby furthering efforts aimed at industrial ecology. The methodology consists of nine hierarchy levels that include identifying, transporting, handling, sorting, converting, and purifying the waste-recycled feeds. These levels provide the designer with a systematic procedure for developing waste-to-feed processes. Evaluations at each level show whether a process for recycling a waste is economically and/or environmentally beneficial, or if costs or environmental impacts are actually greater than those saved from using a waste stream. The systematic procedure for designs and evaluations allows one to look for other alternatives immediately when costs or impacts are found to be too high. An example for styrene tar waste shows how the method can be used to design and evaluate waste-to-feed processes. In addition, any part of the process that is currently yet to be designed can use the intermediate results of economic and environmental impact values as targets for the remainder of the design. These targets let the designer know what monetary and impact values to remain below for the process to be economically and environmentally beneficial. In the future, this methodology can be used to analyze specific recycling processes of interest and evaluate their economic and environmental viability.This paper contains an editorial to the special issue of Ecological Modelling devoted to the relevant materials presented at the International Environmental Modelling and Software Society (IEMSs) 2002 meeting in Lugano, Switzerland. Fifteen papers were selected for publication after rigorous peer review. Thus, this special issue consists of a set of high quality articles and reflects the contemporary advance of current research in Ecological Modelling. The work presented here relates to both aquatic and terrestrial ecology. as well as theoretical ecological analysis. In addition, one of the papers is devoted to specific case studies of industrial ecology. Analysis of indirect effects is a recurrent issue of a number of papers presented here. A couple of papers are devoted to the investigations of indirect effects specifically. However, examples of how Ecological Modelling has been helpful for eliciting, indirect interactions could be found in other papers presented here as well. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Roundput [Int. J. Sustainable Dev. World Ecol. 8 (2001) 29] is one of the most important principles of the development of both natural and industrial ecosystems, and is especially important for analysis of an ecosystem's dynamics an
d overall functioning. as it is related to an extent to which energy and matter are recycled and used in a cascade-type operation. Here we argue. using two modelling case studies from the UK and Switzerland, that increasing recycling rates for plastic and glass would improve the energy budget of waste management programmes, and, therefore, benefit the corresponding industrial ecosystems. In the first case study we show that the major source of energy savings from glass recycling is through increased use of cullet in glass manufacture (5.4% reduction in total energy consumption with 100% glass recycling when compared to the present-day situation). In terms of energy consumption, recycling is the preferred waste management option, even if a large proportion of the recycled glass is diverted for use as aggregates. Further energy savings could be achieved by introduction of a city-wide kerbside collection scheme, which would result in an estimated maximum reduction (100% recycling rate) of 7.6% in energy consumption for processing of the Southampton household glass wastes. In the second case study we compare the situation in which all wastes are burnt at a MSWI plant with two scenarios assuming that 8.1 % of the plastic is diverted into a cement Kiln (mixed plastics; scenario 1) or a mechanical recycling plant (polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene; scenario 2). The resulting net primary energy consumption values for both scenario 1 (5.85E8 MJ or 60% relative to the reference scenario) and 2 (7.46E8 MJ or 76.6% relative to the reference scenario) use less primary energy than the reference scenario (9.74E8 MJ). This means that, from the point of view of resource consumption, the diversion of plastics waste away from the MSWI plant has a beneficial effect. Therefore, the increased recycling of glass and plastic would benefit the industrial ecosystems in terms of energy savings. This is similar to the patterns observed in most natural ecosystems, and a careful consideration of this similarity within a framework of industrial ecology should help to reduce the conflict between the two systems. (C) 2004, Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Complexity issues in the ecological aspects of chemical engineering are of two kinds: the mutual interactions of many multi-scale systems and the lack of consilience in the objectives of different disciplines that consider the economic, philosophical, cultural, and scientific and engineering aspects, respectively. This paper discusses the second kind of complexity and the ecological issues in the different disciplines. Economic value, as expressed by market price, depends on whether limits on resources and the Earth's services due to the scale of human technological activities are taken into account. Human activities relative to the Earth's ecology require sustainability consideration. Two important stands on sustainability are discussed. Mainstream sustainability is a stand for continued economic growth to foster advances in technology to overcome the limits of the Earth. It requires technological activities to follow green chemistry and green engineering principles to develop innovations that are ecologically considerate. Environmental sustainability is a stand to stay within forecasted limits in the resources and renewability capacity of the Earth. The technology for this further includes using the principles
 of industrial ecology to locate ways to use wastes and recycle products as source materials for other processes to make and close material cycles. Chemical engineering innovations for increased atomic utilization of reactants, efficiency in energy use, dematerialization, non-toxicity, recyclability, and creative systemic cycling of materials for waste management are good for the ecology. Case studies are given showing the utility of following the principles developed for good ecological practice. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.New legislation has been passed in an attempt to minimize industrial waste and promote recycling. What does this mean for materials science?Rapidly industrializing Asian countries (RIACs) face both development and environmental challenges. The increasing resource and environmental pressures have impeded RIACs' efforts to quickly promote their people's quality of life, while protecting their natural environment. Due to lack of resources, technologies and capital, RIACs need to seek a more integrated development strategy. Industrial ecology may be one solution, as it aims at optimizing the use of materials and energy in products, processes, industrial sectors and economies by systemically mimicking natural systems in an industrial setting. The relevant practices and experiences in the developed world have proved that there is a degree of effectiveness and efficiency to development through the application of industrial ecology. It is even more critical to applying the principles of industrial ecology in RIACs with fewer resources. However, compared with the developed nations, RIACs face different environmental, economic and social constraints. Therefore, RIACs have to adopt different approaches to implement the concept of industrial ecology. In this paper, we first introduce the environmental, economic and social constraints in RIACs and imply that RIACs need a sustainable industrial development strategy, namely, 'producing more with less'. Then, we review the current practices on eco-industrial development in RIACs. As a specific case study, due to its size and increasing influence on the global economy and politics, China will be examined in detail with regard to its eco-industrial development practices. Through these approaches, the challenges to applying industrial ecology to RIACs will be analyzed and recommendations are provided.The design aspects of energy selection and energy efficiency are described. These topics are key components of Design for Environment, and thus are important considerations in industrial ecology. In the article, background material is presented on energy forms, sources, carriers and conversion technologies. Then, energy use in countries, regions and sectors is discussed, and the impact of energy use on the environment described. Efficiencies and other measures of merit for energy use are presented, and design for energy selection and for energy efficiency are described, highlighting energy-related design factors for pollution prevention. Finally sustainable development and its relation to energy and efficiency are discussed, and a case study is presented.The modem technological society mobilizes and uses a very large number of materials. These substances are derived from rocks, sediments, and other natural repositories, and most undergo transformation prior to use. A large fr
action of the materials is eventually returned to the environment. Natural processes do the same but not necessarily with the same suite of materials. For purposes of better understanding industrial development and potential environmental impact, it is important to know, even approximately, the elemental cycles of all materials potentially useful for modem technology. In this review, we examine and summarize cycle information for 77 of the first 92 elements in the periodic table. Mobilization calculations demonstrate that human activities likely dominate or strongly perturb the cycles of most of the elements other than the alkalis, alkali earths, and halogens. We propose that this pattern is ultimately related to the aqueous solubilities of the predominant chemical forms of the elements as they occur in nature: Human action dominates the cycles of the elements whose usual forms are highly insoluble, nature those that are highly soluble. Examples of the utility of anthropogenically dominated cycle determinations for resource supply analyses, environmental impact assessment, and public policy are presented and discussed. If the rapid rise in the use of materials by the technological society in the twentieth century continues into the next century, anthropogenic dominance of the cycling of a majority of the elements of the periodic table will only increase.As manufacturing industries become more cognizant of the ecological effects that their firms have on the surrounding environment, their waste streams are increasingly becoming viewed not as materials in need of disposal, but rather as resources that can be reused, recycled, or reprocessed into valuable products. Within the food processing sector there are many examples of value-added use of processing residues, although many of these focus solely on utilization as livestock feed ingredients. In addition to livestock feed, though, many other potential avenues exist for food processing waste streams, including food grade as well as industrial products. Unfortunately, the challenge to food processors is actually conducting the byproduct development work. In fact, no clear delineation exists that describes necessary components for an effective byproduct development program. This paper describes one such strategic methodology that could help fill this void. It consists of identifying, quantifyirig, characterizing, developing, analyzing, optimizing, and modeling the waste stream of interest. This approach to byproduct development represents an inclusive strategy that can be used to more effectively implement value-added utilization programs. Not only is this methodology applicable to food processing operations, but any industrial or manufacturing firm could benefit from instituting the formal components described here. Thus, this methodology, if implemented by a manufacturer, could hold the potential for increasing the probability of meeting the goals of industrial ecology, namely, that of developing and operating sustainable systems.One of the biggest challenges for China is how to retrofit the industrial processes, which are based on obsolete technology, within financial, institutional and legal constraints. Ecological Industrial Parks (EIPs), based on the principles of material and energy recycle and cleaner production, has been planned and constructed, and is recognized as the third-generati
on industrial park in China. In this paper, several EIPs in the mainland of China are presented, and the characteristics and experiences of Guigang National Demonstration EIP, Tuopai brewing EIP, Nanhai National Demonstration Regional EIP and Tianjin Economic Development Zone are discussed.This paper explores tools which have the potential to promote and assess the formation of partnerships between the minerals and energy industries to enhance the economic, environmentally responsible and socially acceptable use of energy. There is a need to look at energy provision and energy services in an integrated manner with key drivers for economic development - both locally and regionally. The minerals sector will remain highly significant to regional economic development in a number of globally significant regions in the medium term. Furthermore, mining, minerals and metals' projects are both consumers and, in sonic cases (potential), generators of large amounts of energy (electricity included). It is therefore appropriate to focus on the promotion of partnerships between energy providers and the minerals sector which seek to improve resource efficiency within the combined minerals/energy envelope, guided by the tenets of Sustainability. Whilst there has been considerable development of systems analysis tools in recent years to address this sort of complex systems' analysis (Life Cycle Management, Cleaner Production and Industrial Ecology arguments for example), there is no effective roadmap available to decision makers to guide the selection and exploitation of these tools in different contexts. Our previous work developed a Decision Support Framework (DSF) which provides some guidance here, but only within the context of coal-based power generation. The DSF employs the tools of Multi Criteria Decision Analysis (MCDA), within which trade-offs between competing objectives are explored in such a way that alternatives can be compared without necessarily reducing all the different cost and benefits to a common basis (eg a monetary basis). Even if the existing DSF is extended to include all aspects of supply-side management, it is still lacking the necessary tools to analyse energy providers as dynamic network partners within minerals projects (or indeed any resource or manufacturing sector). New models are required for this, which firstly, seek to characterise such network structures, and secondly, enable the application of the necessary analytic tools to exploit these partnerships and networks for optimal performance. This paper explores the development of such an integrated set of network analysis tools, and their relation to the DSF. Due consideration is given to the choice of the attributes needed to characterise partnership linkages and network integrity (eg security of supply of electricity), and the efficiency of material transformations within any node of the network (as a function of energy consumption), and the impact that this has on the viability of other linkages (eg due to reduced availability of raw materials). We discuss how these perspectives help shape the form of objectives to be considered by MCDA.This multiple-case study, which combined diverse data collection methods, evaluated the impacts of waste policy instruments on 14 mainly large Finnish industrial companies in the 1990s. The management response to waste policy in the fir
ms appeared to be small and most of the interviewees felt that the primary pressure to upgrade environmental performance came from their customers. The waste policy instruments were not considered to have contributed to waste prevention in the case companies. In contrast, the recovery and safe final disposal of wastes had developed favourably. In order to promote the source reduction of waste, the scope of policy should be drastically shifted from waste management to society's overall cycles of materials and products. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.This article discusses the need to integrate scientific research with the concept of Industrial Ecology, acting as support for the development of Eco-technologies. In order to proceed with the discussion, an initial section presents the concepts. A new and more accurate position concerning the extension of Eco-technologies in the context of Industrial Ecology is proposed. Emphasis on the role of academic scientific research as a way to propose and support specific solutions for local problems. Thus, alternative solutions based on the application of non-conventional technologies, which explore the unique regional characteristics of a Brazilian region, are examined. The sharing of waste streams generated by two polluting industries, mining and leather tanning, can lead to lower environmental impact if compared with separate management of their wastes. A comprehensive bibliographic review of non-conventional technologies related to heavy metal attenuation is included. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In a recent article of this journal, Robert et al. [Journal of Cleaner Production 10 (2002) 197] define five hierarchical and interdependent levels for a systems approach for strategic sustainable development (SSD) to move toward the desired outcome, the state of sustainability. This paper evaluates the concept of industrial ecology (IE) by considering its application and use in terms of the strategic sustainable development model. The author argues that the applications of the concept of IE can contribute to all five levels in the hierarchical model. However, the paper shows that if IE is used outside the systems model, four risks and difficulties are generated that can lead to suboptimal solutions, problem displacement and problem shifting. Recommendations derived from ecological economics and environmental management are made for ways to proceed with the integration of IE into the broader SSD concepts and approaches. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In the 10 years since industrial ecology first became a topic of academic interest, it has grown as a field of inquiry and has produced a community of practice in several sectors including academia, business, and government. Even as the shape of industrial ecology becomes clearer, questions remain as to its lasting power beyond the metaphor that gave it its distinctiveness. This paper examines the development of industrial ecology and assesses its progress towards becoming a field of academic inquiry. And, in a related analysis. I look at the progress industrial ecology has made in establishing itself as an institutional (cultural) basis for action in the above sectors. Ideas like industrial ecology must become institutionalized if they are to have much effect on the reality of everyday activities. (C) 2004 Elsevi
er Ltd. All rights reserved.The electronics industry is generally recognized as a leader in clean production practices. Industrial ecology, however, encourages a systemic approach to sectoral behavior, which means that not just production, but also the role of electronics products and services in supporting an information culture should be considered as part of a comprehensive analysis. The eventual goal should be the production of social practices and systems that provide the desired functionality and quality of life in an environmentally acceptable manner. A conceptual framework for such an analysis of information infrastructure is presented, although the analyses and data required for a full understanding remain limited and preliminary in many ways. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents a non-equilibrium thermodynamic model of industrial development. With an underlying argument of homology rather than analogy, the aim is to reconcile understanding, in physics, biology, ecology, and the industrial process. Hypotheses of homology are tested on the emergent patterns found in both natural and industrial systems-patterns in energy intensities, production and recycling, diversification, organisational life histories and selection pressures, and systemic stability. Preliminary support for the model is found in existing databases and in the literature. Some potential problems and model qualifications are highlighted. The model is then used to examine regional decline and sustainable industrial regeneration in the South Yorkshire region of the UK. Areas for further research, such as classification schemes, are identified. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial economics ingest materials, energy and information to produce goods and services and excrete wastes and emissions. Wastes can be minimized and the relative amounts of resources, which go into goods and services, as opposed to waste, are essential to clean production and to the sustainability of the production system. A regression model based on empirical data is presented that provides a partition coefficient expressing the ratio of energy (or material) resources invested in goods to energy going to waste. Partition coefficients are developed for five countries and are shown to be related to GDP, energy and material consumption and energy and waste intensities. Higher partition coefficients mean higher productivity and lower energy, waste and material intensities. In addition, energy use/capita and pollution/capita is lower. The price of energy to the industrial sector is related to the partition coefficient. The policy implications are that partitioning of resources to goods should be maximized and waste minimized for economic as well as environmental reasons. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology is sometimes referred to as the science of sustainability, but unlike mature sciences, it has yet to establish reliable modes of inquiry or a uniform framework for dialogue-partly because sustainability is difficult to characterize, and partly because industry-environment interactions are difficult to model quantitatively. A number of sustainability metrics have recently been proposed that partially address the quantification problem, but inevitably oversimplify the problem of sustainability characterization. This paper proposes an
 overarching taxonomy for classifying the quantitative criteria of sustainability as financial. thermodynamic, environmental, ecological, socio-political or aggregated. Several examples are presented. Pollution potential, which is an environmental metric related to the ideal thermodynamic work (of mixing) per mole required to remove pollutants from the environment, is discussed in particular. However, because no single metric can capture sustainability per se, industrial ecology may be limited to elucidating the trade-offs that exist between different types of complementary (rather than substitutable) criteria. The life cycle of polyurethane foam insulation in freezer applications is presented as a quantitative example of how different environmental criteria can lead to different design recommendations. Lastly, the framework proposed herein suggests a research agenda for industrial ecology, especially regarding the linkages between different measures of sustainability and cross-comparison of the investigative methods found in different sciences related to sustainability. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.Chemical process simulation (CPS) software has been widely used by chemical (process) engineers to design, test, optimise, and integrate process plants. It is expected that industrial ecologists to bring these same problem-solving benefits to the design and operation of industrial ecosystems can use CPS. This paper provides industrial ecology researchers and practitioners with an introduction to CPS and an overview of chemical engineering design principles. The paper highlights recent research showing that CPS can be used to model industrial ecosystems, and discusses the benefits of using CPS to address some of the technical challenges facing companies participating in an industrial ecosystem. CPS can be used to (i) quantitatively evaluate and compare the potential environmental and financial benefits of material and energy linkages; (ii) solve general design, retrofit, or operational problems; (iii) help to identify complex and often counter-intuitive solutions; and (iv) evaluate what-if scenarios. CPS should be a useful addition to the industrial ecology toolbox. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Local authorities are important actors in the transition towards sustainable development. They can play important roles for the promotion of industrial ecology systems oriented management of resources and pollutants on the local and regional level. In this context, the method of substance flow analysis (SFA) has been argued to be supportive to municipal environmental management, although, performing an SFA is often time consuming and demands great deal of work. It may be a task hard to fulfil on a regular basis for many local authorities. A crucial issue is, then, to what extent it is possible to learn from other SFA studies? Aiming to contribute to this understanding, this paper analyses comparative results of SFA case studies of the cadmium metabolism in three structurally different municipalities in Sweden. The analyses illustrate that in addition to specific knowledge gained from a single case study, there is also general knowledge that may constitute important information for environmental decision-making in other local authorities. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Substance flow analysis is one of the analytical tools 
applied in the research field of industrial ecology. This paper presents practical experiences on implementing substance flow analysis to support integrated environmental policy in the Flemish region of Belgium. We have studied the case of chromium flows within the regional economic system, within the regional ecosystem and among these interdependent systems. During the project, a bookkeeping account and a static model were constructed. Origin analyses and sensitivity analyses were used and calculations on the effects of potential policy measures were carried out. The analyses and calculations show that many difficulties exist in connection with the substance being studied on the one hand and the reigion under investigation on the other. The contribution as well as the practical difficulties and limitations of applying substance flow analysis are presented. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Eco-industrial developments with a special focus o n material cycles are usually concentrated on the level of the industrial estate/industrial park. However, the results of completed and ongoing research projects in Germany's Rhine-Neckar region indicate that larger reigional areas may be more suitable for closing material loops and creating sustainable industrial ecosystems. Nonetheless, this larger size also presents new challenges for industrial ecosystem development, such as establishing the necessary trust and coordination among actors, homogenizing and collecting data to enable comparisons within and between firms, and minimizing the transaction costs involved in searching for appropriate partners. Practical solutions and IT-tools suggested as a means of supporting eco-industrial development that emphasizes positive synergy effects for industrial actors. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Since the introduction of the industrial ecology concept by Frosch and Gallopoulos in 1989, and the apparent Success of the Kalundborg, Industrial Symbiosis project, attention to planned eco-industrial park (EIP) development projects has grown all over the world. This article includes data from six of these EIP development projects. Three of the projects discussed are located in the Netherlands and three in the US. This article compares the differences in project approach and results on a national level. The approach suggested is derived from the available EIP development literature. Initial research indicates that the Dutch EIP projects are more successful than their US counterparts. This difference in success can be, mostly, attributed to the fact that the US projects are initiated by local and regional governments that see the project as a way to improve the local/regional economy with access to substantial government funds. Because of this heavy government involvement, US companies are, in general, not interested in the project. The more Successful Dutch projects, on the other hand, are mostly initiated by the companies themselves with financial and advisory support from the local and regional government. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.Eco-industrial parks (ElPs) provide a basis for applying the concept of industrial ecology. In Australia, eco-industrial parks are new and are being considered by state governments as a way of achieving more sustainable industrial development. However, for many firms, local government and communities, indu
strial ecology is a concept that is misunderstood and treated with suspicion. This paper uses research undertaken to investigate the application of industrial ecology to ensure more sustainable industry development in the State of Queensland, Australia, to develop a set of principles and planning guidelines for use by governments to facilitate the development of eco-industrial parks. Synergy Park, 22 km west of Brisbane, is Australia's first planned eco-industrial park to be built. The planning and development of this eco-industrial park was a significant challenge to the developer and public agencies concerned with this project. The case study presented in this document provides useful lessons and advice for planners and developers involved with the planning and development of eco-industrial parks. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The application of ecological concepts to the industrial setting has been touched upon by literature across several disciplines. Two emerging ecological planning approaches, landscape ecology and industrial ecology, are applied here to look at alternative ways of planning industrial parks. As an emerging field, landscape ecology provides different viewpoints from the traditional approach of natural conservation, which mainly focuses on the protection of nature. The approach of landscape ecology regards the environment as a land mosaic, a mixture of natural and urban environment, which concerns a manageable human-scale environment across one or two human generations. Industrial ecology, on the other hand, goes beyond the traditional "end of pipe" idea of pollution control and learns from the ecosystem concept. The current paper is an attempt to reconcile these two fields as an integrated approach to the planning of industrial areas. Using a case study of Singapore's Jurong Island industrial park. two fundamental issues behind the idea of landscape ecology and industrial ecology are raised. If raw materials, energy and by-products are more easily replaced or reused by technology and management, then research on industrial ecology and related knowledge will be crucial for developing natural resource substitution by innovative technology and new ways of environmental management. Where it is difficult to substitute natural resources, the skills of planning and managing natural resources will take priority over other strategies. In this situation, the knowledge of landscape ecology needs to be applied to the prediction, design and evaluation of ecologically optimum resource uses, patterns and processes in the mixture of natural, urban and industrial environment. A new concept, "nurtured landscape", is proposed for mediating between the natural ecosystem and the urban/ industrial environment. The nurtured landscape provides a basis for the development of new ecological technology using landscape to ameliorate the polluting effects of the urban/industrial neighbourhood. The planning of Singapore's Jurong Island industrial park provides a test of applying the principles of landscape ecology and industrial ecology to the possible transformation of an industrial area. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology is an emerging concept for the establishment of ecologically sustainable industrial development of industrial zones and estates in China. Optimizing materials and energy flows among faci
lities within specific regions or industrial ecosystems is a basic industrial ecology strategy. As such, life cycle analysis and management and green supply chain management are related approaches. The Guitang Group, a Chinese sugar complex, has developed an embryonic eco-industrial development by applying an integrated approach to green supply chain management. This paper describes the Guitang Group and its evolving integrated green supply chain management model. After summarizing experiences of the application of the Group's model, the paper analyzes challenges and then introduces possible solutions. Some conclusions are developed on the basis of this analysis. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper focuses on the current situation in the adaptation and adoption of industrial ecology in Asian Developing Countries (ADCs). The objective of this paper is to consider the possibilities to develop an eco-industrial development (EID) strategy for these developing countries. We review the regional indigenous resources of ADCs and use the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) grouping to classify the preconditions of industrial ecology in ADCs. The authors of this paper argue that unlike the usual way of applying industrial ecology as a technical tool or a practical instrument, ADCs need to adopt industrial ecology as a strategic vision and as a strategic approach to plan the economic, social and ecological development of their national economies. In this way, it can be possible for the ADCs to avoid the same problems that occurred when the developed countries experienced industrialization and rapid economic growth, and move toward more sustainable development. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.The study seeks to demonstrate the potential role that industrial ecology could play towards energy poverty reduction and environmental conservation in Kenya through sustainable charcoal production and consumption. This is achieved through an exploration of the application of the life cycle management (LCM) concept that identifies various opportunities for technological intervention for energy and environmental conservation and reduction of material and energy losses. It also identifies opportunities for income generation at various stages of the product's life cycle; an aspect critical in poverty reduction in developing countries. The study finds that applying LCM in the charcoal trade in Kenya can deliver social, economic and environmental benefits to developing country communities and should, therefore, be promoted. However, appropriate legal, policy and institutional frameworks must exist in these countries for this to occur. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Within industrial ecology. the life cycle or chain of activities forms an important basis for analysing and reducing environmental impacts. This has led to the development of integrated chain management. A comprehensive analysis must take the actors and their interaction in chain management into account. By assessing integrated and supply chain management, this paper is designed to contribute to future development of industrial ecology, in that it addresses the importance of actors along the chain as well as their interaction. Five case studies from the textile industry are used to illustrate the differences between the objectives of the single actors in
 the chain and the overall chain. This illustrates that co-operation is the only way for companies to improve the competitiveness of the chain while reducing environmental burdens. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology is a label under which many linkages between production and consumption processes are grouped. This article is based on a social science approach, ranging from organisational learning to the analysis of industrial districts, ill reflection to the techno-economic approach of the developments in the industrial ecology projects 'INES 1994-1997 and INES Mainport 1999-200' in the Rotterdam harbour and industry complex. In relation to the growing attention for regional types of industrial ecology, the article aims to provide a useful social science analytical framework for investigating regional industrial ecology, and to develop a prescriptive approach that can stimulate such industrial ecology. Regional industrial ecological systems meet with static and dynamic issues as a result of specific system boundaries of their decision-making levels. The analytical framework provides insight into these issues through a focus on three phases of (regional) industrial ecology, the production of collective goods, and governance mechanisms. We find that the INES Mainport project is still in the first phase of industrial ecology. To go beyond this phase, the Rotterdam harbour and industry region faces the limits of system boundaries of the decision-making levels within the reigional management. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This contribution to the Journal of Cleaner Production special issue 'Applications of Industrial Ecology' is based upon an extensive literature review. which produced four criteria to characterise research on the concept of industrial ecology (IE). The criteria are (1) material and energy flows, (2) systems improvement, (3) systems adaptation and (4) change management. The criteria were analysed against the six subject areas of the Technology and Climate Change (CLIMTECH) Research Programme in Finland to identify the applications of the concept of industrial ecology. The results of the analysis contribute (a) to the debate on the characteristics of the emerging concept of IE, (b) show IE characteristics of a large Finnish research project in the field of climate change mitigation and (c) invite scholars in the field to study the observed unclear and fuzzy role of the concept of IE in practical research project work. Responses to this article are encouraged for publication in the future issues of Journal of Cleaner Production. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Despite the fact that all successful, documented cases of industrial symbiosis to this day have been self-organizing, some authors and development officials have suggested that increased public planning might deliver better results in this respect than spontaneously evolved market coordination. This paper takes an historical approach to suggest that comprehensive planning is unlikely to live up to the expectations of its proponents. The essay is structured as follows. The first section provides short case studies of industrial symbiosis in highly different economic and institutional settings, the essentially free-market regime of Victorian England and communist Hungary (1948-1989). The available evidence suggests that mark
et coordination proved much more favorable to the emergence of industrial symbiosis, despite the elaboration of a comprehensive policy to that effect in Hungary. Insights derived from the so-called "Austrian" critique of central planning are then used to explain this paradox. The analysis presented suggests that the Hungarian planners' failure was not so much the result of the bad implementation of sound policies, but the logical outcome of a top-down approach's shortcomings. Policy implications for the public planning of industrial symbiosis in a mixed economy are then derived and the case for self-organization is found more compelling. The creation of more innovative institutions that will force firms to "internalize their externalities"' while leaving them the necessary freedom to innovate is viewed as an urgently needed and promising path towards increased, sustainable reuse of industrial by-products. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Natural ecosystems and human societies built upon them have evolved in many diverse ways. Human systems have been more materials and energy efficient in earlier periods than they are now. What can we learn from natural ecosystems that can help us to improve upon the materials and energy efficiency of our societies and thus help us to make real progress in the direction of sustainable societies? The author explores many diverse facets of our current processes and proposes ways for societal learning from nature and for applying these lessons to improve the quality of life for humans and for the ecosystem upon which we are all dependent. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Applying the theory of industrial ecology into the paper, the authors analyze the creating mechanism, and conduct a comparative research on the patterns of industrial symbiosis in the process of the establishment of EIP from ecology and economics. Through the introduction of the two typical examples----Kalunborg Eco-park in Denmark and Lubei group EIP in China, the authors explain two industrial symbiosis patterns: Individual Entity Symbiosis and Comprehensive Entity Symbiosis. The authors explore the operation law of them, and provide theoretical support to and reference for the establishment of EIP in China.Along with the rapid development of national economy in China, 85 to 95% of the energy resources and industrial raw materials come from mineral resources, but the reservation of mineral resources is scarce, especially the resources concerning the stable national economic development, such as oil, iron ore, manganese ore, copper ore, chromites, pyrites and Sylvie etc. Safety-ecology mine garden will be a new concept to build a perfect safety-ecology mine environment. Based on the theory of industrial safety and industrial ecology, Mining enterprise can engage in safe, clean and harmless production in the exploitation of mining resources, the administration of environment resources and the management of ecological safety, thus attaining the most profit. The optimum production and issues concerned are discussed as: (1) Sustainable model for mineral resources(2) Types of the safety-ecology mine garden (Whole-new plan-type in safety-ecology; Up-graded plan type in safety-ecology; Mine garden for ritual safety-ecology); (3) Plan for the safety-ecology mine garden (Safe green plan; Ecological green plan); (4) Assessing syste
m for the safety-ecology mine garden (ISO 14000 system and OSHMS 18000 system etc.).The southern and central regions of The Netherlands are part of the Northwest-European Delta Metropolis. The demands placed by modem, urban society on the agricultural sector are numerous. Not only are the environment, animal welfare, and food hygiene and quality at stake here, but also must these demands be met in a period of a structural decline in economic yields and under the permanent pressure of a shortage of available land. Intensification and increase of scale, which have characterized European agriculture for a long time, are set to continue in the future. As a direct consequence of these developments five perspectives can be described that together have considerable implications for spatial planning in the rural areas. These perspectives are: (1) The development of knowledge for the benefit of the agro-food sector. (2) The development of agro-production parks based on the principles of industrial ecology. (3) Large-scale, intensive, heavily specialized land-based agriculture. (4) 'Dreams and folk stories' that either relate to traditional production methods or are the product of modem marketing. (5) Specialized management of nature and landscape. The pressure on the agrarian cultural landscape, for centuries a by-product of traditional agriculture, is rapidly increasing as a result of these developments. In this paper it is argued that the problems of the future of the landscape in Northwestern Europe should be tackled outside the traditional framework of the agrarian production.Industrial Ecology is a rapidly evolving field with substantial policy implications. It provides an overview of the complex relationships between the environment and the sustainable development of an industrialized world. As the development of modem industry and the advance of technology, these reused wastes will be becoming a renewal resource in view of industrial ecology. Therefore the economic behaviors do material-reuse firms use these waste as a resources become a focal issue of industrial ecology. Economic behaviors of waste as renewal resource reused in industrial ecosystem by material-reuse firms are firstly analyzed in this paper. Logistic growth model is applied to studying the dynamic relationship of waste as resources to be reused and material-reuse firms. Finally, this paper gives out two study results: the optimum resource recovery rate of a material-reuse firm in industrial ecosystem and the essential condition of industrial ecosystem to use these waste as resources.This paper reviews the impacts of industrialization to the ecological system and discusses the general principles and approaches of industrial ecology.Many activities labeled "industrial ecology" are as ancient as human society (e.g. reusing materials, using waste, from one process to fuel another). The idea, however, that industrial ecology is the "science of sustainability" has gained prominence only in recent decades. Within this landscape, industrial ecology is becoming more formalized - there is a journal, an international society and increasing numbers of educational efforts dedicated to the topic. While industrial ecology has become a fairly common reference in various types of literature, its inclusive nature makes it difficult to define - much like the concept it strives to support - su
stainability. Hence, while there is general agreement among practitioners that education dedicated to industrial ecology is important, there is not agreement on the specific direction this should take. The metaphor-applying ecological principles to industrial systems - is de facto interdisciplinary. This creates philosophical and administrative conflict when designing courses and programs. There are several approaches evolving that employ the industrial ecology concept, but each has quite distinct foci. A simplified delineation of these approaches might include: 1) Focus on developing innovative technology/models; 2) Focus on quantifying processes and identifying "best" technologies and/or best uses for technology/models; 3) Focus on societal factors (economic, behavioral, paradigmatic) to find alternative ways to do things using existing technologies. The ideal approach is likely some combination of these three. However, in designing a formal curriculum, it is not feasible (nor necessarily desirable) to cover all three in depth. For industry leaders (and policy-makers) understanding the values and limitations in each is important. If industrial ecology is to promote sustainability, then decisions about how it is taught will greatly influence efforts to define and reach sustainability. Understanding the tradeoffs and opportunities inherent in the diverse directions that industrial ecology education is moving is important if we wish to continue to identify and clarify pathways to sustainability.The UNESCO World Network of Biosphere Reserves (WNBR), while not originally conceived to include urban areas, was intended to include sites representing all significant ecosystems with the goal of support for sustainable development locally and globally. Drawing on the example of the New York Metropolitan Region (NYMR), which has a population of 21.4 million, it is argued here that the eventual inclusion of the largest of the world's cities in WNBR not only is within the logic of the biosphere reserve concept, but would also benefit the network and its goals. The ecological significance of the NYMR, its role as a driver for global environmental change, as well as the efforts under way in the city to improve urban environmental management and governance are all examined. Potential added value to the WNBR of including megacities such as the NYMR is considered, in particular, regarding the sharing of best practices, lessons learned, and the strengthening of links between megacities and their global natural resource bases. This paper first provides an overview of the financial state of the process industry, major issues it currently faces, and job placement of chemical engineers in the US. These facts combined with an expanded role of process systems engineering, are used to argue that to support the "value preservation" and "value growth" industry three major future research challenges need to be addressed: product discovery and design, enterprise and supply chain optimization, and global life cycle assessment. We provide a brief review of the progress that has been made in these areas, as well as the supporting methods and tools for tackling these problems. Finally, we provide some concluding remarks. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The paper deals with improvements on environmental significant activities related to the life supporting func
tion "building and housing", using life cycle assessment (LCA). In the calculation, back-casting technique is utilised and implies to a future scenario, based on known technology. Besides heating, waste water treatment is a significant issue, according to the definition of building and housing function practised. The main conclusions from the assessment are that rebuilding is an environmentally better choice than the construction of a new building, if the same essential environmentally related functional performance is reached. Furthermore, the case study and the national estimates performed prove that the potential environmental impact can be reduced by about 70% for the heating service and 75% for the waste water system, if the suggested measures are performed. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This article details the planning, implementation, and assessment of a worldwide electronics packaging take-back system by a key supply chain partner. The take-back system was a financial and environmental tradeoff between reducing cardboard packaging against increased use of ground and water transportation. Through Internet-enabled life cycle analysis, the new system was shown to significantly reduce waste as well as energy and environmental impacts: If such methods were introduced more formally in the electronics industry, $150 million as well as billions of pounds of waste could be saved per year.The purpose of the underlying research for this paper was to obtain a better understanding of the eco-efficiency improvements of a crop protection product from the perspective of the crop protection industry in the context of sustainable agricultural development. The environmental impacts of an innovated and a traditional fungicide treatment were explored by applying two different product-oriented environmental life cycle analysis methods. One method (product life cycle-oriented energy balance) assessed the use of resources during the whole product life cycle, whereas the other method focused on the potential damage of the active ingredients for the environment and for humans. The functional unit and basis for comparison was defined as 'treating 1 ha of citrus crop for foot- and root rot and trunk cankers' during one crop season. Treatment with the innovated product resulted in relatively higher impacts per tonnage within the crop protection industry itself. However, outside the crop protection industry relatively fewer resources are needed and there are fewer potential releases into the environment. The innovated product fulfills its function more eco-efficiently or more sustainable than the traditional product. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.As environmental awareness increases, industries and businesses have responded by providing 'greener" products and using ''greener" processes. Many companies have found it advantageous to explore ways of moving beyond compliance, using pollution prevention strategies and environmental management systems, to improve their environmental performance. One such way is life-cycle assessment (LCA). This concept considers the entire life cycle of a product, process, or an activity. Evaluating environmental impacts holistically from raw material acquisition, through manufacture, use, and disposal using a life-cycle perspective is gradually being viewed by environmental managers and decision makers as
 an important element in achieving environmental sustainability. The use of a holistic, life cycle approach can help industry and government avoid the unintended trading of one environmental problem for another. this paper addresses ongoing research in LCA methodology in the US EPA's National Risk Management Research Laboratory. Two key areas of this research include life-cycle inventory (LCI) data availability and life-cycle impact assessment (LCIA) modeling. To address the issue of data availability, EPA developed a website entitled LCAccess. Although LCAccess does not itself contain data, it is a searchable global directory to potential data sources. LCAccess also serves as a central source for LCA information. In addition, EPA developed TRACI (the Tool for the Reduction and Assessment of Chemical and other environmental Impacts), which allows the characterization of ozone depletion, global warming, acidification, eutrophication, tropospheric ozone (smog) formation, ecotoxicity, buman Particulate effects, human health, fossil fuel depletion, and land use effects. TRACI can be used with life-cycle inventory to further analyze and understand the data. (C) 2004 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Environ Prog.Metric identification has received growing attention as more alternatives become available,for quantifying the sustainability-oriented performance of a target human activity. Failure to tackle the diversity in these alternatives has given rise to significant difficulties in comparing and interpreting the assessment results obtained from using various metrics. This paper explores some bottlenecks in identifing "appropriate" environmental sustainability metrics that specifically meet the needs of a sustainability assessor. A new conceptual hierarchy "stressor-status-effect-integralio-well-being" (SSEIW) for metric classification is proposed. This hierarchy categorizes the full range of metrics into five levels, each of which measures the interested environment manner. This paper shows that the proposed hierarchy can be applied within the framework of life-cycle assessment (LCA), which provides a promising solution to "best-practice" metric identification as well as expanding the LCA applications to the sustainability field. (C) 2004 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Environ Prog.Industrial progress toward sustainability requires meaningful practical, and scientifically sound metrics. Most existing metrics rely on information about material and energy inputs and emissions from the main process and selected processes in its life cycle. Such metrics often result in multiple conflicting variables, making it difficult to use them for decision making. Furthermore, sustainability metrics need to be scientifically rigorous and capable of evaluating the broader economy and ecosystem scale impacts of selected processes and products. This paper proposes a framework for evaluating the environmental sustainability of industrial processes that satisfies these needs. This framework uses energy analysis to combine different types of material and energy streams in a thermodynamically sound manner. Energy analysis is also combined with end-point life-cycle impact assessment methods for evaluating the impact of emissions. This results in metrics for a selected system with different levels of aggregation ranging from multiple to single dimensi
ons. The challenge of analyzing a process at life cycle and coarser spatial scales is met by combining energy analysis, life cycle assessment, input-output analysis, and both economic and ecological aspects. The result is a doubly nested hierarchy, which analyzes processes at multiple spatial scales of process, life cycle, economy, and ecosystem. Each scale contains another hierarchy based on the degree of aggregation of the metrics. A case study of the ammonia process illustrates the characteristics of the proposed approach. (C) 2004 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Environ Prog.SRI Consulting's Process Economics Program (PEP) was commissioned by its clients to undertake a lifecycle assessment (LCA) for the purpose of comparing a biodegradable polymer with a conventional commodity polymer in packaging applications. Biodegradable polymers offer the potential of addressing a wide range of environmental concerns associated with conventional polymers such as greenhouse gas emissions and sustainability. LCA is a tool specifically developed for assessing the overall environmental burden of a product including the system used for manufacturing it and its end-of-life treatment. This paper provides a cradle-to-grave LCA of two polymers that may be used in food packaging applications: polylactide (PLA), which is a biodegradable polymer derived from corn; and polypropylene (PP), which is primarily derived from natural gas in the United States. An inventory analysis of the PLA and PP systems is presented. An impact assessment focused on global warming is also provided. Although measured field or facility data are preferred for a rigorous LCA, PEP data can provide a reasonable basis when measured data are unavailable. Energy inventories and greenhouse gas emissions are readily derived from PEP data, but other potentially relevant impact indicators are not. (C) 2004 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.Pulp and paper manufacturing constitutes one of the largest industry segments in the United States in term of water and energy usage and total discharges to the environment. More than many other industries, however, this industry plays an important role in sustainable development because its chief raw material-wood fiber-is renewable. This industry provides an example of how a resource can be managed to provide a sustained supply to meet society's current and future needs. The objective of this work is to present streamlined environmental life-cycle assessments (LCA) between chemical (kraft-sulfate), mechanical (or thermomechanical), and biopulping processes. This LCA would help us to evaluate the industry's current experience and practices in terms of environmental stewardship, regulatory and nonregulatory forces, life cycles of its processes and products, and future developments. The pulping industry has been traditionally using mechanical or chemical pulping methods, or a combination of the two, to produce pulps of desired characteristics. Mechanical pulping accounts for about 25% of the wood pulp production in the world today. Mechanical pulping, with its high yield, is viewed as a way to extend the forest resources. However, mechanical pulping is electrical energy-intensive and yields paper with less strength compared to that produced by the chemical pulping process. These disadvantages limit the use of mechanical pulps in many grades o
f paper. Chemical pulping accounts for about 75% of the wood pulp production in the world. This process produces paper with very high strength. However, the process has the disadvantages of being capital- and energy-intensive, giving relatively low yields, producing troublesome waste products, and producing by-products that are of relatively low values. (C) 2004 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.The subject of this study is a spent pot lining (SPL) landfill. The aim of this study was to identify the site remediation option, among four alternatives, that minimizes overall environmental impacts based on: 1) a comparative life cycle assessment (LCA); and 2) modeling of contaminant transport in groundwater. The four options were: leaving the landfill in place (Option 1); excavation of the landfill, with on-site disposal of the excavated materials in a secure cell (Option 2); excavation of the landfill, with treatment of the SPL fraction (Option 3); and excavation of the landfill, with incineration of the SPL fraction in a cement kiln (Option 4). The LCA was performed following the guidelines provided by the International Standard Organization (ISO). Furthermore, to improve the relevance of LCA to site remediation sector, impacts caused by residual in-situ contamination were assessed by applying a simulation of contaminant transport in groundwater, using site-specific data. The LCA identified Option 1 as having the least environmental impacts. However, the transport modeling concluded that contaminant concentrations 50 years from the present could be approximately 30 to 40 times the regulatory criteria if this option is retained. In addition, this study demonstrated that LCA can be used as a screening tool to help identify significant environmental issues; the LCA identified acute and chronic water ecotoxicity categories as being the dominant impact categories of the environmental profile and consequently, it is recommended that a complete environmental risk assessment (ERA) be performed for Option 1.Sustainable product development of an automotive structure requires a balanced approach towards technological, economical and ecological aspects. Current paper shows the application of a structural optimization system to the optimal choice of foams as a core material for sandwiches with aluminum alloy faces, for the use as floor panels in the bottom structure of a concept car. The minimization problem for the weight of the entire bottom structure under static load conditions, including stiffness, strength and buckling constraints, is formulated and solved for each material application. In addition to optimal (minimized) mass and materials' price used for selection of foams, the assessment of an environmental impact of materials-candidates during the entire life cycle of the structure is considered. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.SiC ceramics are widely used at high-temperature fields. The raw materials, manufacture process and application fields of SiC are all related to heavy energy consumption and pollutions, and bring high environmental loads. The resources consumption and pollution emissions in RB-SiC manufacture process were quantificationally estimated by input/output method. Difference between traditional technique and the new technique to produce SiC ceramics in China was also compared and analyzed. The Results show that
 SiC processes consume large quantities of resources because the furnace is open to environment and too much thermal-protection materials are used. Some suggestions were introduced to improve the traditional techniques and a new process was designed. It is the most important that the open furnace should be replaced by close vacuum furnace. Sintering and siliconizing process can be combined into one high-temperature process. As results of process simplification and vacuum sintering, resources and energy consumption and wastes emission were decreased remarkably.The authors carried out the life cycle assessment for metallic copper produced by the pyrometallurgical processes based on the investigations. Using single copper ore and copper-nickel coexistence ore the metallurgical processes were chosen separately to investigate the energy consumption and various emissions in the life cycle of the metallic copper. The assessments indicate that the energy consumption and the emission of carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide in the processes of using the copper-nickel coexistence ore are more than those in the processes of using the single copper ore. However, the emissions of solid waste are due to ore grade and dilution rate. The sewage is mainly due to mining geological structure, regional rainfall and circulating utilization or recycling rate of water. The differences of the energy consumption and the carbon dioxide emission are mainly due to the difference of refilling technologies and metallurgical processes used in the two processes.LCA is a technique that can be usually integrated with technical, market and economic assessment in the evaluation of products and process technology. The results of LCA of products can be used for providing the environmental aspects information, provide scientific evidence for product innovation and policy strategies. Our group has done great efforts on Life Cycle Assessment, which include: LCIA methodology, case study, LCA database development and application of LCA in materials selection.Alternatives to cyanide for leaching gold from gold bearing ores/concentrates can be divided into different groups according to their donor elements with gold in aqueous solution. The donor elements with gold during dissolving are classified into carbon group (C-) donor, nitrogen and phosphorus group (N-, P-) donor, sulfur group (S-) donor and chloride group donor. It is a high time to evaluate all the alternatives to cyanide from the viewpoint of life-cycle-assessment (LCA) for material production. By introducing utility function of assessment index and setting the data base, a quantitative calculation or comparative assessment of the environmental impacts, including resources consumption, energy consumption and pollution resulted from the waste water and the gases of the leaching processes by six sulfur bearing reagents including thiosulfate, thiourea, polysulfide, LSSS, modified LSSS and thiocyanate with those of cyanide are carried out for the first time. The comparison results are valuable to choose reasonable reagents for leaching gold, the way of calculation and the mathematic model in this study based on the LCA principles can be applied to many similar processes or methods for leaching gold as well as leaching other metals.The authors carried out the life cycle assessment (LCA) for metallic nickel produced by pyrometallur
gy processes based on the investigations. The production processes of nickel, which use nickel-copper coexistence ore as the raw material, are a complex production system and deal with nickel, copper and other metals production; therefore, the LCA study is rather complicated. The environmental impacts are distributed to each product, according to the mass flow combined with the energy consumption, and a LCA case study for the complex metallurgical processes is offered. The assessment indicates that the processes, which cause the largest energy consumption and waste gases emission, are mining, ore preparation and electrolysis processes. The processes, which cause the largest amount of waste water and solid waste, are mining process. The improving ways of them are also discussed.Eco-building material is still in the developing stage in our country. Because testing technology is relatively backward in comparison with fast development of eco-building material, up to now there is not a complete evaluation method, and eco-building material market is in disorder, which also restricts the research and development of eco-building material. A comprehensive assessment project is put forward for the eco-building material products first time in this paper, and a comprehensive assessment system is founded. At the same time, we research and develop a comprehensive assessment software in order to solve the difficult problem, which at present is unable to evaluate the eco-building material products in the round and quantitatively. This system includes basic environment parameters of eco-building material at first and environment accordant function factors, at the same time include the basic use factors and lifecycle environment load factors. On the basis of system engineering and math method theory, we found a scientific assessment method for the eco-building material products and the software for their application. This comprehensive system of four subsystems, that is, product fundamental function subsystem, environment accordant function subsystem, environment protect function subsystem, and lifecycle environment load subsystem. Each subsystem covers ten to twelve kinds of factors, including to almost all kinds of the function parameters. According to the evaluating system for eco-building material, it makes the eco-evaluation maneuverable, evaluation results systematic, scientific and impartial. At the same time, we can evaluate completely and quantitatively common eco-building material products. This system also plays an important role in regulating eco-building material market and guiding the development of eco-building material. It also provides a forceful evaluating method for our country setting national standard for eco-building material and promoting green environment sign, green environment Olympic materials selection.A Chinese LCA software package, which follows LCA methodology and data documentation format defined by ISO14040f, is briefly introduced. This program features a typical Windows graphical user interface, with which users can construct a flow chart to denote the life cycle of any product system. With a flow chart, users can easily turn to the data documentation of each process and the result of computation can be shown in the flow chart. Thus, the flow chart plays a central role in assessment procedures to make them visual and easil
y understood. using three-kinds of graphic elements, i.e. boxes, links and feedback links, users can illustrate a product system with internal loops. And matrix algorithm is adopted for LCA computation. Hence, this program can manipulate the computation of environmental Input/Output Analysis (IOA) as well. The localization of data documentation format is also discussed in this paper.The aim of this study is to compare material recovery to waste incineration with energy recovery from the criteria of energy efficiency. Material recovery saves virgin material and also energy since production processes using recovered material are less energy intensive than processes using virgin material, whereas energy recovery saves other fuels that differ among various energy systems. Optimisations are made for the district heating systems in two Swedish municipalities, showing that it is profitable for the energy utilities in the municipalities to invest in plants using waste as a fuel for electricity and heat production. The fuels replaced by the waste differ between the municipalities. For one it is mostly wood chips, and for the other, a lot of biomass is replaced, but the largest saving is in oil. Energy savings by material recycling of the waste are calculated. Non-combustible waste, such as metals and glass save energy in various extensions when material recycled, but give no heat contribution when incinerated. It is more complicated to compare material and energy recovery of combustible waste fractions, such as cardboard, paper, plastics and biodegradable waste since they can be recycled in both fashions. For these fractions it is important to consider the configuration of the energy system. The conclusions from the two municipalities are that even if there is a district heating system able to utilise the heat, from the energy-efficiency view point; paper and hard plastics should preferably be material recovered, whereas cardboard and biodegradable waste is more suited for energy recovery through waste incineration. These calculations are done with the assumption that biomass should be regarded as a limited resource and when saved eventually eliminates fossile fuel combustion in other facilities. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Next to economic viability, the holistic energy balance of electricity generation options is a factor of major importance. All aspects of the energy balance, i.e. all expenditures and all revenues, are compared in a life cycle analysis. This turns out to be a complex task, especially because of the large number of input quantities to be determined, including the balancing limits to be taken into account. The article presents in detail the findings of analyses of energy balances for various types of nuclear power plants as well as electricity generation in fossil-fired power plants, and for renewable energies. The analyses and their databases are discussed. Moreover, the findings are presented for the energetic amortization periods and the amounts of CO2 emissions specific to the respective generating technologies.The reduction of greenhouse gases' emissions (especially CO2) from power plants is a subject of great debate. In order to design sustainable electricity production scenarios, the reduction options have to be assessed from an environmental life cycle perspective. In this paper, a life cycle assessment of 
(i) four scenarios of coal based electricity production, including coal and biomass (waste or cultivated) co-firing and combustion, flue gas CO2 capture and coal ash valorisation and (ii) one hypothetical scenario of biomass combustion were conducted. The results showed that biomass co-combustion is always environmentally better than the sole CO2 capture and/or biomass combustion. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.All nations of the world depend on fossil fuels for their energy needs. However the obligation to reduce CO2 and other gaseous emissions in order to be in conformity with the Kyoto agreement is the reason behind which countries turn to non-polluting renewable energy sources. In this paper the pollution caused by the burning of fossil fuels is initially presented followed by a study on the environmental protection offered by the two most widely used renewable energy systems, i.e. solar water heating and solar space heating. The results presented in this paper show that by using solar energy, considerable amounts of greenhouse polluting gasses are avoided. For the case of a domestic water heating system, the saving, compared to a conventional system, is about 80% with electricity or Diesel backup and is about 75% with both electricity and Diesel backup. In the case of space heating and hot water system the saving is about 40%. It should be noted, however, that in the latter, much greater quantities of pollutant gasses are avoided. Additionally, all systems investigated give positive and very promising financial characteristics. With respect to life cycle assessment of the systems, the energy spent for manufacture and installation of the solar systems is recouped in about 1.2 years, whereas the payback time with respect to emissions produced from the embodied energy required for the manufacture and installation of the systems varies from a few months to 9.5 years according to the fuel and the particular pollutant considered. Moreover, due to the higher solar contribution, solar water heating systems have much shorter payback times than solar space heating systems. It can, therefore, be concluded that solar energy systems offer significant protection to the environment and should be employed whenever possible in order to achieve a sustainable future. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A life cycle assessment (LCA) was conducted to quantify the non-renewable energy use and global warming potential in electricity generation from a typical oil fired steam turbine plant in Singapore. As the conventional LCA does not include any cost analysis, which is a major criterion in decision making, the cost of power generation is estimated using a life cycle cost analysis (LCCA) tool. It is estimated that the hidden processes consumed about 9% additional energy on top of the fuel embedded energy, while the hidden GHG emission is about 12%. A correlation is established to estimate the life cycle energy use and GHG emissions directly from the power plant net efficiency. The study methodology, results and the empirical relations are presented, together with a brief overview of the Singapore power sector. It also highlights the need for consideration of the reserves availability in the pricing mechanism and how such cost indices could be developed based on the LCA-LCCA. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.With greater awarenes
s of the impacts of gasoline-powered nonhandheld equipment, such as lawn mowers, on atmospheric pollution, the consumer is encouraged today to choose alternative electric models powered by battery (cordless) or electricity (corded). This choice has historically been driven by the differences in emissions during use and not over the entire life cycle of the products. This study compared impacts of 12 gasoline-powered lawn mowers and one battery- and one electricity-powered lawn mower using life cycle analysis methods. With the exception of lead emissions released in greatest quantity from the life cycle of the battery-powered mower, the gasoline-powered models emitted the highest amounts of all contaminants, as much as 1,500 times more carbon monoxide, 31 times more hydrocarbons and nitrogen dioxides, and 18 times more carbon dioxide, released in largest quantity from the life cycle of all three mower types. The results of this study show that gasoline- and battery-powered lawn mowers pose specific threats to environmental and human health, whereas the corded models are the most benign in all impact categories and scenarios considered.We develop indicators showing the relative environmental burdens that human activities place on locales for a given level of economic benefits. The main purpose is to develop tools that allow us to examine the potential vulnerabilities within economies to changes in resource conditions. The indicators of pollution emission or resource consumption per job can be used to identify potential challenges to resource and industry managers and to compare areas in terms of their ability to adapt to change. For example, if a large number of area jobs are dependent on abundant water, this indicates a vulnerability to a reduction in water availability for industrial use. We develop a case study for 23 counties and 1 city in Maryland to examine the usefulness and limitations of the indicators. Our case study demonstrates that the indicators provide an informative view into patterns of local economic activity and use of an area's environmental goods and services. In contrast to patterns for total environmental burdens (e.g., total SO(2) emissions) that are typically reported, the rates of environmental burden per job are not simply correlated with high or low economic output. Thus, the indicators represent distinct patterns of environmental burdens per job that reflect reliance on environmental services. The indicators have some limitations when used at this fine scale because they can misrepresent conditions in counties in which economic sectors are dominated by one or a few businesses. For this reason, the indicators are best used as a regional screening tool.The use of hydrogen as an alternative fuel is gaining more and more acceptance as the environmental impact of hydrocarbons becomes more evident. A life cycle assessment study has been carried out to investigate the environmental aspects of hydrogen production. Production by natural gas steam reforming and production upon renewable energy sources are examined. Hydrogen is selected as a future alternative fuel because of the absence of CO2 emissions from its use, its high-energy content and its combustion kinetics, A very large number of environmental burdens result from he operation of the different hydrogen production routes. A complete and accurate identification a
nd quantification of the environmental emissions has been attempted. The use of wind, hydropower and solar thermal energy for the production of hydrogen are the most environmental benign methods. The benefits and the drawbacks of the competing hydrogen production systems are presented. (C) 2004 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Ecomaterials were categorized based on their life cycle and eco-efficiency. Ecomaterials in their broadest sense are classified into "Functional materials of the environment", "Materials for the advanced energy" and "Materials of life cycle design". The materials in the first two categories improve such services as the maintenance of living environment and the efficiency in energy supply. "Materials of life cycle design" can be referred to as ecomaterials in the strict sense and are further devided into four categories according to the focus on stage in life-cycle, namely, "Materials with green environmental profile", "Materials of higher material efficiency", "Materials of higher recyclability" and "Materials of hazardous substance free". Based upon this classification, current Website home pages and environmental report books of enterprises were investigated in search of commercialized ecomaterials. There are many "Materials of higher material efficiency" and "Materials of hazardous substance free" reaching the high 39% and 31% of the total respectively. "Materials with green environmental profile" gains 21%, and "Materials of higher recyclability" shows only 5%. The "Materials of life-cycle design" are obviously well represented in the market reflecting manufacturers' determined response to the increasing appeal to consumers.This study examines the life cycle economics, environment impacts, and energy consumptions of Chinese automobiles fueled by bio-ethanol blends, utilizing life cycle assessment (LCA) techniques, and puts forward C, Env, En, EEE indicators to assess the economics, combined environmental impacts, energy consumption, and the balance of the three, as a means to evaluate whether the energy utilization efficiency and the domestic environment improvement are achieved at the lowest cost possible. A generic gasoline fueled car is used as a baseline case, and the cassava-based E85 fueled FFV in Guangxi is used as a case study. On the life cycle basis, the cost of cassava-based E85 fueled FFV is about 15% higher than that of gasoline fueled car, of which the two key factors are the price of cassava and gasoline, through a cost breakdown analysis. It also has lower life-cycle emissions of CO2, CO, HC, and PM pollutants, higher NOx emissions, while about 20% combined environment indicator is lower than that of the gasoline fueled car. And, it is higher in total energy consumption, lower in fossil fuels and petroleum consumptions, and has a better combined energy indicator. Lastly, the EEE indicator of the cassava-based E85 fueled FFV is about 29% less than that of the gasoline fueled car. Hence, E85 fueled FFV is a better vehicle than the gasoline fueled car, taking the balance of all the 3 "E"s, the energy, environmental and economical aspects, into considerations. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Though oxygen demands are critical measurements for waste water treatment plant operation and water quality management, they are of little r
elevance to assess or rank the environmental quality of detergents. It is argued that: (1) No accurate measurements of the oxygen demand of bleach detergents can be made, because these products release oxygen during the measurement. (2) When waste water is adequately treated, under normal operating conditions the oxygen demand (organic loading) of the raw sewage has no influence on river quality. (3) Oxygen demand values are narrowly focused on environmental exposure, while they do not take into account the potential for ecotoxicological effects. (4) Short-term biological oxygen demand measurements are useful for the monitoring of 'average sewage', but they are unreliable to assess the biodegradability of more specific substances or products. Instead of oxygen demands, more holistic evaluations based on risk assessment or on life cycle analysis are scientifically preferred.Fuel cells are recognized by all the scientific community to be ultra low emission energy conversion systems, because the pollutants associated with their operation are very low in concentration, compared to traditional energy systems. On the other hand, fuel cells are mainly fed with hydrogen, a chemical component that is not available as a pure component, but it must be extracted from other compounds. This practice involves energy consumption and emissions related to extraction of fuel, hydrogen conversion, transportation and clean up. In order to evaluate the environmental impact related to the energy production by the use of a fuel cell it is imperative to consider all the processes related to the fuel cell operation, and not only the FC operation itself. Life-cycle assessment (LCA) is a unique approach for evaluating the environmental impact related to the whole life of the system, i.e. considering all the processes associated to the system itself, including construction and decommissioning. In the present study a molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC) system for electric energy production is considered and the related life-cycle environmental impact is considered. Finally a comparison between traditional energy conversion systems and the MCFC systems is conducted, in order to evaluate which are the advantages and the disadvantages that each supposed scenario can lead to. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Requirements for the design of HVAC systems with low environmental impact have become accepted in the past decade. However, the environmental performance is complicated to evaluate, because the process is affected by several parameters. This paper presents a case study, in which a previously established method for environmental evaluation is adapted. Two alternative air handling units were analysed using life cycle assessment including the weighting step. The results, according to the weighting method applied as well as the material assumptions, show that the user stage of the life cycle of both units is the critical part of the overall impact. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All, rights reserved.Life cycle assessment has been used to compare different processes for the end life treatment of exhausted tyres: combustion in a conventional waste-to-energy (WtE) process; substitution of conventional fuel in the cement clink process and two different hypotheses of reuse as filling material based on a cryogenic pulverisation process (CPP) or on a mechanical pulverisation pro
cess (MPP). The analysis shows that the fuel substitution in cement production and the use in WtE processes allow an interesting result in terms of avoided effects, mainly because of the avoided use of conventional fuels. Between these two alternatives, a better result is obtained with the fuel substitution in cement clink process. CPP and MPP for reuse as filling materials show worse results in terms of environmental impact with respect to the other alternatives, because of the high energy consumption related to the pulverisation processes. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Performance analysis and life cycle assessment (LCA) of an integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) fed with biomass with upstream CO2 chemical absorption has been carried out. The main working conditions have been determined by mean of partial exergetic analysis. A sensitivity analysis with respect to the CO2 absorbing solution composition has also been carried out. The reachable efficiency ranges between 35% and 36%, depending on gas turbine technology level. In comparison with efficiency values previously found for an IGCC fed with coal with upstream CO2 chemical absorption (38-39%), the configuration studied seems to be attractive because of the possibility of operating with a simplified scheme (without H2S removal process) and at atmospheric pressure and for the possibility of using biomass in a more efficient way with respect to conventional combustion systems. Due to the lower efficiency, the specific CO2 emission results higher (170 kg/MW h) with respect to the cycle fed with coal and CO2 removal (130 kg/MW h). Moreover, the CO2 balance has been determined with respect to the entire life cycle of the plant, including the construction, operation, dismantling and the biomass growing phases. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The need for a practical, economic and environmentally sound solution for waste wood arises from the requirements for resource conservation and recent regulations. Co-firing with coal is a promising option for the thermal recycling of waste wood. The overall environmental impact caused by the co-utilisation of waste wood with coal was evaluated by using life cycle assessment as established by Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) [A technical framework for life cycle assessment. Washington, DC: SETAC, USA; 1991, Guidelines for life cycle assessments: A code of practice. Brussels: SETAC, Europe; 1993]. This provides opportunities to evaluate direct environmental impact, to identify possible improvements, and to reduce energy resource consumption. In this work, the environmental impact of co-utilising lignite and waste wood in an industrial steam boiler was evaluated. Results obtained showed that co-utilisation is technically feasible and can meet strict environmental standards. A net decrease Of CO2 emissions can be achieved by the thermal use of waste wood, as well as conservation of fossil fuel resources, minimisation of waste disposal and reduction of impacts on health. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Studies of popular renewable energy systems show that cumulative energy demand (CED) can be understood as a kind of simplifying life cycle assessment [1] where the accounting of energy and material inputs is seen as part of an inventory analyses and the calculation of CED as a rough form of
 impact assessment. Within this research project, three grid-connected photovoltaic systems (sc-Si, pc-Si and a-Si based) are examined in regard to CED and cumulative emissions. The production of these systems was chosen to take place in seven European countries: Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Netherlands, Austria and Sweden. Due to the fact that electricity demand does play a major role in production of photovoltaics and that power generation differs throughout these countries CED varies from about 23,200 to 65,200 MJ/kWp. The cumulative emissions (CEm) were found to lie between about 900 and 4000 kg CO2/kWp, 1.9 and 5.5 kg NOx/kWp and 2.4 and 4.8 kg SO2/kWp. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.During the design process of heating and air conditioning systems, the designer must analyse various factors in order to determine the best design options. Therefore, the environmental aspects of a product should be included in the analysis and selection of design options if an environmentally aware design is to be produced or selected. The comparison between three different heating systems was made with the Eco-indicator 95 method. The study included the environmental impact at the production phase of the system, because alternative production methods have different kinds of environmental burdens. The results showed that the three different concepts of heating systems with different construction materials varied the Eco-indicator value. For radiator heating system the Eco-indicator value is far superlative than for floor or fan coil convector heating system. Copper pipes and other copper parts contribute to the greatest environmental impact. Radiator heating Eco-indicator showed three times higher value for copper pipes than for the steel pipes despite smaller dimensions. The lowest values are obtained for floor heating systems. Reasonable values are obtained for fan coil units; analysis shows up, that heat exchanger contributes the main part of the value. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Although intuitively it is apparent that population-level exposure to contaminants dispersed in the environment must be related to the persistence of the contaminant, there has been little effort to quantify this link formally. In this paper we investigate the relationship between overall persistence and/or overall residence time in a multimedia exposure environment and the population-level intake of contaminants as expressed by intake fraction (iF), the cumulative fraction of chemical emitted to the environment that is taken up by members of the population. We demonstrate that for any given contaminant and emission scenario the definition of iF implies that it is directly proportional to the overall multimedia persistence (P-OV), or the overall multimedia residence time (T-OV). The proportionality constant has dimensions of time and represents the characteristic time for population intake (CTI) of the chemical from the environment. We then apply the CalTOX fate and exposure model to explore how T-OV and CTI combine to determine the magnitude of iF. We find that CTI has a narrow range of possible values relative to T-OV across multiple chemicals and emissions scenarios. We use data from the Canadian Environmental Protection Act Priority Substance List (PSL1) Assessments and multimedia P-OV to show that exposure assessments based on empirical obs
ervation are consistent with interpretations from the model. Results indicate that P-OV derived from screening-level assessments of persistence, bioaccumulation potential, and toxicity (PBT) is a useful indicator of the potential for population-level exposure.This analysis presents the results of a life cycle assessment (LCA) carried out on six alternative options for the recycling of water at a Danish industrial laundry for workwear. The study focuses on the handling and disposal of the wet residues generated when wastewater is treated for recycling, and in accounting for long-term potential toxicity impacts. The analysed options are a combination of two water-upgrading technologies: biofilter and ultrafiltration, and three residue disposal alternatives: biogas followed by incineration of sludge at local wastewater treatment plant, thermal vitrification treatment for production of vitrified sand, and mineralization in a sludge bed. It is concluded from the results that with the current Danish environmental policy priorities, the environmental impacts of highest priority are the toxicity effects derived from the presence of heavy metals in the residues. Heavy metals originate from the dirt in the workwear that is washed in the laundry. It is further concluded that the studied water treatment technologies satisfy both the need of clean water for recycling and simultaneously help controlling a safe disposal of pollutants by concentration of the residues. The results of the study also confirm the potential of LCA as a decision-support tool for assisting water recycling initiatives and for residue handling management. The handling of residues has been identified as a stage of the water recycling strategy that bears important environmental impacts. This holistic perspective provided by LCA can be used as input for the definition of environmental management strategies at an industrial laundry, and the prioritization of investments to the environmental profile of laundry processes. In this case-study, the results of the LCA are made operational by, for example, selecting the water treatment technology which is associated wih a safe disposal of the wet residue. It is important to bear in mind that such prioritization depends on national boundary conditions. In the case study analysed, the boundary conditions steer the weighing of the environmental impacts, following the current Danish environmental policy priorities.Incorporation of ecological considerations in decision-making is essential for sustainable development, but is hindered by inadequate appreciation of the role of ecosystems, and lack of scientifically rigorous techniques for including their contribution. This paper develops a novel thermodynamic accounting framework for including the contribution of natural capital via thermodynamic input-output analysis. This framework is applied to the 1992 US economy comprising 91 industry sectors, resulting in delineation of the myriad ways in which sectors of the US economy rely on ecosystem products and services. The contribution of ecosystems is represented via the concept of ecological cumulative energy consumption (ECEC), which is related to emergy analysis but avoids any of its controversial assumptions and claims. The use of thermodynamics permits representation of all kinds of inputs and outputs in consistent units, facilitating the defini
tion of aggregate metrics. Total ECEC requirement indicates the extent to which each economic sector relies directly and indirectly on ecological inputs. The ECEC/money ratio indicates the relative monetary versus ecological throughputs in each sector, and indicates the relationship between the thermodynamic work needed to produce a product or service and the corresponding economic activity. This ratio is found to decrease along economic supply chains, indicating industries that are higher up in the economic food chain price ecosystem contribution more than the basic infrastructure industries such as mining and manufacturing. The ratio of CEC with and without inclusion of ecosystems indicates the extent to which conventional thermoeconomic analysis underestimates the contribution of ecosystems. Such ratios, made available for the first time, provide unique insight into the importance of natural capital, and are especially useful in hybrid thermodynamic life cycle analysis of industrial systems. The approach, data compiled in this work, and the resulting insight provide a more ecologically conscious tool for environmental decision-making, and has potential applications at micro as well as macro scales.It is generally well known that the reliability of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) studies depends upon exact, complete and sharp input data that, unfortunately, are not always available. Furthermore, when available, the input data are affected by uncertainty whose importance is not always adequately taken into consideration. This paper describes the software F.A.L.C.A.D.E. (Fuzzy Approach to Life Cycle Analysis and Decision Environment): a tool designed for the calculation of the eco-profile of products, based on a fuzzy logic approach. The originality of the method already treated in other papers is to use the fuzzy representation to manage the complex relationships that arise in compiling an eco-balance. In particular, the model allows to give further attributes to the numerical data of the inventory based to the expert knowledge. The uncertainty of data is clearly defined by means of four fuzzy linguistic variables: the age of the data, the kind of technology to which data are referred to, the statistical and geographic representativeness of the data. The main model's strength is transparency. Many LCA tools appear, unfortunately, as "black boxes" leaving the actual influence of the algorithms upon the final results unclear. On the other hand, with F.A.L.C.A.D.E. the user is able to observe and control all the calculation steps from the input of data to the final results. For instance, F.A.L.C.A.D.E. uses a linear sub-model that, starting from the inventory matrixes, allows to calculate an eco-profile together with a conditioning number "CN", which describes how sensitive is the linear model to errors when solving the system of equations. Finally, the software present a set of tables summarising the results obtained with the fuzzy model. These results can be compared with those obtained with other methods. The software represents therefore a tool to evaluate the quality of Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) study. F.A.L.C.A.D.E. has been developed using an object-oriented programming. The result is a flexible tool whose structure can be easily changed by the user (variables, linguistic rules, domains of the fuzzy groups, etc.). As case study, the softw
are has been applied to the LCA of a plaster material commonly used in building construction. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Multiple environmental factors may act synergistically to influence demographic characteristics, and ultimately the dynamics, of biological populations. Using prospective and retrospective analyses of demographic data from a 40-year study of individually marked animals, we investigated the demographic mechanisms of the temporal and spatial dynamics of a yellow-bellied marmot (Marmota flaviventris) population. Prospective elasticity analyses indicated juvenile survival (P-j) would have the largest relative influence on the projected population growth rate (lambda). Relative magnitudes of elasticities did not differ between years characterized by positive (lambda > 1.0) and negative (lambda < 1.0) population growth. However, retrospective analyses of a life table response experiment (LTRE) revealed that changes in fertility (F), followed by age of first reproduction (&alpha;) made the largest contributions to observed annual changes in &lambda;. Changes in F and &alpha; made the largest contributions to annual declines in &lambda;, whereas changes in P-j also were important to cause increases in &lambda;. Population dynamic differences among marmot colonies were due primarily to spatial variations in &alpha; and P-j. Our results indicate that changes in reproductive parameters (a and F) primarily drive the temporal dynamics of our study population, and that demographic mechanisms of population increases might differ from those of population declines. Studies of the regulation of yellow-bellied marmot populations should focus on the factors or processes influencing reproductive parameters.Since the last petroleum shortages, environmental aspects are becoming more important. This has driven the scientific community to find new environmentally friendly solutions that help to minimize exhaust emissions and natural resources depletion. To achieve this, the environmental implications as well as critical points involved in each process must be analyzed, making possible the design of the best environmental strategies. Life cycle assessment (LCA) consists of an ultimate tool that provides a comparison between products, process, or services, thus helping to develop environmental improvements. In the present work, an LCA of a building air conditioning air-air heat pump has been carried out. To accomplish this objective, two methodologies have been tested-the Eco-Indicator99 and the EPS2000. Emissions and environmental impact determination, including those produced during the heat pump manufacture as well as the ones produced during the heat pump functioning were the primary analyzed parameters. Finally, a comparative long-term profitability study between a heat pump and a gas boiler has been carried out. External costs due to the environmental impact were also considered. Results show that EPS2000 is mainly focused on the energetic and nonenergetic resources decrease, while the Eco-indicator99 methodology is mainly focused on human health. The main impacts are due to resources depletion, life expectancy, and refrigerant (EPS2000), and to respiratory effects of inorganic substances, carcinogenesis, and climatic change (Eco-indicator99). Also, long-term profitability studies reveal better results for the heat pump comp
ared to the boiler. The longer the life expectancy, the higher the economic profitability of the heat pump. Furthermore, the heat pump provides an alternative that does not need any additional investment for cooling requirements during summertime, while the boiler does. This factor could double the boiler investment costs.Investigating the environmental sustainability of any recycling process demands full understanding and objective quantification of all the associated environmental impacts. Life cycle assessment is an internationally standardized method that is able to account for upstream and downstream inputs and emissions over the complete supply chain providing a product or service. It is generally considered the best environmental management tool that can be used to move from a generic statement about the environmental benefit of a given recycling or disposal system to reach an objective quantification of its environmental sustainability. In this study, it is used to assess and compare the environmental performances of three alternative options (landfilling, recycling, and combustion with energy recovery) that could be used in Italy to manage paper and board packaging waste. The results confirm that material recycling may not be the best environmental option. In this specific case, they show that paper use should be viewed in the context of the international trade in biofuels.New method of environmental load estimation for scraps and by-products production in Life cycle inventory (LCI) based on Input-Output table (I/O table) has been developed. And a new description method of I/O table with scraps and by-products sections for the estimation is developed. In this study, both scraps and by-products are regarded as products, and are dealt with as an independent section in I/O table, respectively. By means of this method, the energy consumption and CO2 emission of process-scrap steel production are estimated as an example study. And a weighted average value of energy consumption and that Of CO2 emission with consideration to the monetary amounts of production of industrial-scrap steel were calculated by using the estimated data, respectively. Moreover, a reliability of the estimated data is analyzed. And LCI of converter steel and EAF steel are done in order to evaluate an influence by differences of data. As a result, when the value of industrial scrap was assumed to be zero, the energy consumption rates of zero against the maximum is estimated 0.5% for the converter steel, and 20.4% for the EAF steel, respectively. Therefore, in case of converter, it is possible to treat the environmental load of a process scrap for nothing in approximation.This study has shown that the environmental impact from the various studied coatings are the dependent criteria on their service lives. The dependence of these criteria has been studied with the help of the integrated design model, developed in this study especially for coatings on exterior wood. The integrated design for the overall performance showed that the water-borne acrylic coating and the water-borne acrylic stain are the best choice as regards the environmental impact and durability of the coatings. The discussed surface coating systems were a solvent-borne alkyd coating, a water-borne acrylic coating, a water-borne acrylic stain, a solvent-borne alkyd stain and alkyd oil.Two rating system
s assessing the environmental damage caused by vehicles are compared: a Brussels one, ECOSCORE and a European one, CLEANER DRIVE. Both vehicle rating systems were developed for the assessment of vehicles with alternative types of fuels as well as different types of drive train, such as electric, hybrid and fuel cell vehicles. A simplified life cycle assessment following a well-to-wheel approach is used to compare the methodologies. Total emissions involve oil extraction, transport and refinery, fuel distribution and electricity generation and distribution as well as tailpipe emissions from the use phase. Different types of pollution such as acid rain, photochemical air pollution, noise pollution and global warming are examined and their impact on numerous receptors such as ecosystems, buildings and human beings (cancer, respiratory diseases, etc.) are investigated. Examples illustrate both methodologies and sensitivity analysis is used to examine the robustness of the systems. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Desalination technologies require high energy consumption. As a consequence, the environmental load associated with the operating stage is much higher (more than 90%) than that associated to plant construction, maintenance and final disposal. This paper analyzes the evolution of environmental impact by means of the Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) technique, caused by the most common commercial desalination technologies used worldwide - multi-stage flash, multi-effect evaporation and reverse osmosis - when integrated with different energy production systems, also taking into account the origin and sources of the energy used. SimaPro 5.0 software, developed by Dutch PRe Consultants, was used as the LCA analysis tool, and three different evaluation methods were applied: CML 2 baseline 2000, Eco-Points 97 and Eco-Indicator 99.Pesticide leaching from agricultural fields to groundwater is an environmentally relevant and highly variable process. In the present paper, leaching scenarios typical in European agriculture are defined. These scenarios consider important sources of pesticide leaching variability, namely site factors, farming practice, and substance properties. The logic-tree method was used to structure these scenarios. For each scenario, leached fractions of pesticide applied in agriculture were calculated with data and models used in the registration process of the European Union (EU). Contributions of all parameters to variability were calculated for 11 pesticides. Substance properties (K(OC) and DT(50,soil)) contributed the most to variability, followed by site, weather, season of application, crop, and macropore flow. The results of the variability assessment may be directly applied in policy making or they may be used in the environmental assessment of pesticides, e.g. with the life-cycle assessment (LCA) method. Several approaches are suggested for how the variability assessment presented in this paper may be incorporated in LCA. The application of these approaches is illustrated by a case study on atrazine.Environmental impacts associated with the manufacture of semiconductor devices are characterized from two perspectives: a qualitative survey of key issues and quantitative analysis of energy and entropy associated with the processes in the production chain. The main issues of environmental concern are emissions fro
m fabs, health effects on line workers and high energy and material use. Results of analysis of material use in the production chain suggest that total weight of secondary fossil fuel and chemical inputs to produce and use a single 2-g 32MB DRAM chip are 1600 and 72 g, respectively. Secondary inputs of fossil fuels to manufacture a chip total 600 times its weight, high compared to a factor of 1-2 for an automobile or refrigerator. Due to its extremely low-entropy, organized structure, the materials intensity of a microchip is orders of magnitude higher than that of "traditional" goods. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Understanding the environmental burdens associated with aquafeeds is a critical component for assessing and improving the environmental performance of aquaculture. The aim of the study was to assess the environmental impacts associated with feeds for rainbow trout production in France, using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The stages assessed are: the extraction of the raw materials, the production and transformation of the primary ingredients used, the manufacturing of the feeds, the use of the feeds at the farm, transport at all stages, and the production and use of energy resources. The assessment revealed that the use of fishery resources (such as biotic resource use) and nutrient emissions at the farm (such as eutrophication potential) contribute most to the potential environmental impacts of salmonid aquafeeds. Improvements in feed composition and management practices seem to be the best ways for improving the environmental profile of aquafeeds.Renewable energy systems, such as photovoltaic and wind-turbine energy systems, are considered to be environmentally sound from the viewpoint of carbon-dioxide emissions and resource depletion. The cost of energy supplied from renewable energy systems is higher than that of conventional fossil-fuel systems, and this hinders the wider spread of renewable-energy systems. Global environmental problems, however, are becoming more obvious. There is a movement to defray the additional cost of electricity generated in environmentally-sound processes. In this paper, we report the results of a survey using the contingent valuation method (CVM) of the willingness of Japanese households to pay more, in the form of a flat monthly surcharge, for renewable energy. The median value of willingness to pay for renewable energy by Japanese households is estimated at about 2000 yen (around 17 US$ with the exchange rate 115 yen/US$) per month per household. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) defines the potential environmental impacts throughout a product's life, from raw material acquisition through production, use and disposal. Research funded by Dairy Australia has defined the life cycle environmental impacts for a range of dairy products. The study has shown that it is important to adopt a Life Cycle Thinking approach to environmental decision making. In the future, the greatest gains will be achieved by dairy manufacturers working with suppliers and customers to encourage continuous environmental improvement throughout the supply chain. Triple bottom line sustainability requires a good understanding of the economic, environmental and social impacts of the industry's activities, and these must all be considered when addressing environmental issues. LCA 
is a useful tool in building understanding of the total environmental impact associated with the production of dairy products.Using life cycle assessment, metrics for calculation of the input energy requirements and greenhouse gas emissions from utility scale energy storage systems have been developed and applied to three storage technologies: pumped hydro storage (PHS), compressed air energy storage (CAES) and advanced battery energy storage (BES) using vanadium and sodium polysulphide electrolytes. In general, the use of energy storage with electricity generation increases the input energy required to produce electricity, as well as the total greenhouse gas emissions. Despite this increase, the life cycle GHG emission rate from storage systems when coupled with nuclear or renewable sources is substantially lower than from fossil fuel derived electricity sources. GHG emissions from PHS when coupled with nuclear and renewable energy systems are lower than those from BES or CAES. When coupled with fossil generation, CAES has significantly lower net GHG emissions than PHS or BES. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A direct reduction process for refractory oxides and a life cycle analysis comparison with conventional pelletising and sintering process for chargechrome are presented. The new route has potential to reduce the environmental impact of the ferroalloy industry and to extend the use of non-renewable resources by utilising waste that is not economically recoverable by conventional technologies; increasing metal recoveries; significantly reducing CO2 emissions; reducing or eliminating the use of coke; and reducing electricity consumption during smelting.According to increase in a waste scrap, a process is noticed in which a waste scraps is consumed for sheet steel production within severe restriction of impurities concentration. In this study, evaluation of the effect on environmental load decline by LCA is applied to this new recycling technology. Target of this study is not for closed loop recycling system like aluminum can for drink but for open loop recycling system in which many industries are concerned. Authors suggest taking the interindustry-relations table for open loop recycling system. Evaluation made in this research is based on it. By setting up I/O boundary, though increase of environmental load is predicted to be high comparing to those which are assumed as non-open recycling system, still there is a sufficient effect for it. As the result of the analysis, curtailment was estimated that energy consumption and CO2 emission are 16.8 GJ per ton waste scrap and 1.2 t per ton waste scrap, respectively.This paper describes the material flows and emissions in all the life stages of CdTe PV modules, from extracting refining and purifying raw materials through the production, use, and disposal or recycling of the modules. The prime focus is on cadmium flows and cadmium emissions into the environment. This assessment also compares the cadmium environmental inventories in CdTe PV modules with those of Ni-Cd batteries and of coal fuel in power plants. Previous studies are reviewed and their findings assessed in light of new data. Published by Elsevier Ltd.China is the largest producer of magnesium in the world. and supplies currently 40-50% of the world demand for magnesium. The current growth in the demand for magnesium is
 primarily driven by automotive industry for light weighting automobiles to reduce emissions. Magnesium production in China is based on a thermal process, known as the Pidgeon process that was originally invented in Canada in the 1940s. The raw material used is dolomite, which is initially calcined, and the calcined dolomite is reduced using the Pidgeon process by supplying ferrosilicon and thermal energy to produce pure magnesium crowns. The magnesium crowns are then melted and cast as pure magnesium ingots, which are then exported from China to meet the growing world demand. With a focus on the global warming impact, a cradle-to-gate life cycle study is conducted using averaged data for magnesium production in China. Calculations show that the cradle-to-gate global warming impact of Chinese magnesium ingots is 42 kg CO2 eq/kg Mg ingot, within an uncertain range of 37-47 kg CO2 eq/kg Mg ingot. The value of impact for the magnesium produced in China is similar to60% higher than the global warming impact of aluminium, a competing material that is also produced in China in abundance. The calculated impact for magnesium is discussed in the context of the future magnesium products value chain that may have a strong dependence on the magnesium produced in China. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Basic requirements of any agricultural implements are the desired combination of hardness and wear resistance properties. Heat treatment plays an important role in order to achieve these mechanical properties. Conventionally high carbon (similar to0.70C) steel hardened by oil quenching (38-45 HRC) is being used but in desert areas and places having black soil higher hardness (45-52 HRC) is required. So for these applications medium carbon (similar to0.30C) steels with microadditions of chromium or boron had been used. Present investigation characterized the mechanism of wear for these three experimental grades of steel. Preferred microstructures of the steel had been determined and the influence of surface hardness and other mechanical properties had been considered for their possible applications in the agricultural sector like tillage discs, soil-engaging components, etc. Predictions of the volume loss during progressive wear for any particular linear distance travelled was compared with the actual obtained by experiments. This in turn assessed the metallurgical life cycle of the agricultural implements made by particular grade of steel in desired soil conditions. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Assessment on net energy, external cost of carbon dioxide (CO,) emissions and cost of using cassava-based ethanol as an alternative automotive fuel has been conducted based on its holistic life-cycle, from feedstock production (source) to fuel combustion. And, a new indicator, figure of merit (FM), is proposed for grading conventional gasoline (CG) and cassava-based ethanol (CE): it links net energy yield, external cost of CO' emissions, and production cost (the higher the FM reading, the better the total performance). On the life-cycle basis, the net energy yield of CE is found to be 0.37 MJ/MJ, i.e. about 49% that of CG. The external cost to society of CO, emission of CE is about 83% of CG's, and the production cost of CE is 0.14 RMB/MJ, i.e. about 200% of CG's. The FM of CE is 0.37, i.e. 46% lower than that of CG. From the standpoint of
 these indicators, CE is currently not competitive with CG, but it has great potential to be improved in the future. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Environmental impact assessment is becoming indispensable for the design and operation of chemical plants. Structured and consistent methods for this purpose have experienced a rapid development. The more rigorous and sophisticated these methods become, the greater is the demand for convenient tools. On the other hand, despite the incredible advances in process simulators, some aspects have still not been sufficiently covered. To date, applications of these programs to quantify environmental impacts have been restricted to straightforward examples of steady-state processes. In this work, a life-cycle assessment implementation with the aim of process design will be described, with a brief discussion of a dynamic simulation for analysis of transient state operations, such as process start-up. A case study shows the importance of this analysis in making possible operation at a high performance level with reduced risks to the environment.First the basics of ecobalancing are briefly explained. In this connection the main focus is set on material flow networks. In the software tool Umberto(R), material flow networks are used to model material flows, which are necessary for creation of inventory analysis. Furthermore, data defects in material flow networks are classified, and causes and consequences of these data defects are pointed out. Afterward, possible solutions with their benefits and drawbacks are proposed. A case study (life-cycle assessment of a coating material) shows both data defects and some solution attempts. Finally a short outlook outlines some other approaches, which should be investigated in future work.Sustainable development requires methods and tools to measure and compare the environmental impacts of human activities for the provision of goods and services (both of which are summarized under the term "products"). Environmental impacts include those from emissions into the environment and through the consumption of resources, as well as other interventions (e.g., land use) associated with providing products that occur when extracting resources, producing materials, manufacturing the products, during consumption/use, and at the products' end-of-life (collection/sorting, reuse, recycling, waste disposal). These emissions and consumptions contribute to a wide range of impacts, such as climate change, stratospheric ozone depletion, tropospheric ozone (smog) creation, eutrophication, acidification, toxicological stress on human health and ecosystems, the depletion of resources, water use, land use, and noise-among others. A clear need, therefore, exists to be proactive and to provide complimentary insights, apart from current regulatory practices, to help reduce such impacts. Practitioners and researchers from many domains come together in life cycle assessment (LCA) to calculate indicators of the aforementioned potential environmental impacts that are linked to products-supporting the identification of opportunities for pollution prevention and reductions in resource consumption while taking the entire product life cycle into consideration. This paper, part I in a series of two, introduces the LCA framework and procedure, outlines how to define and model a product's life 
cycle, and provides an overview of available methods and tools for tabulating and compiling associated emissions and resource consumption data in a life cycle inventory (LCI). It also discusses the application of LCA in industry and policy making. The second paper, by Pennington et al. (Environ. Int. 2003, in press), highlights the key features, summarises available approaches, and outlines the key challenges of assessing the aforementioned inventory data in terms of contributions to environmental impacts (life cycle impact assessment, LCIA). (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Providing our society with goods and services contributes to a wide range of environmental impacts. Waste generation, emissions and the consumption of resources occur at many stages in a product's life cycle-from raw material extraction, energy acquisition, production and manufacturing, use, reuse, recycling, through to ultimate disposal. These all contribute to impacts such as climate change, stratospheric ozone depletion, photooxidant formation (smog), eutrophication, acidification, toxicological stress on human health and ecosystems, the depletion of resources and noise-among others. The need exists to address these product-related contributions more holistically and in an integrated manner, providing complimentary insights to those of regulatory/process-oriented methodologies. A previous article (Part 1, Rebitzer et al., 2004) outlined how to define and model a product's life cycle in current practice, as well as the methods and tools that are available for compiling the associated waste, emissions and resource consumption data into a life cycle inventory. This article highlights how practitioners and researchers from many domains have come together to provide indicators for the different impacts attributable to products in the life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) phase of life cycle assessment (LCA). (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is useful as an information tool for the examination of alternative future scenarios for strategic planning. Developing a life cycle assessment for a large water and wastewater system involves making methodological decisions about the level of detail which is retained through different stages of the process. In this article we discuss a methodology tailored to strategic planning needs which retains a high degree of model segmentation in order to enhance modeling of a large, complex system. This is illustrated by a case study of Sydney Water, which is Australia's largest water service provider. A prospective LCA was carried out to examine the potential environmental impacts of Sydney Water's total operations in the year 2021. To our knowledge this is the first study to create an LCA model of an integrated water and wastewater system with this degree of complexity. A "base case" system model was constructed to represent current operating assets as augmented and upgraded to 2021. The base case results provided a basis for the comparison of alternative future scenarios and for conclusions to be drawn regarding potential environmental improvements. The scenarios can be roughly classified in two categories: (1) options which improve the environmental performance across all impact categories and (2) options which improve one indicator and worsen others. Overall environmental improvements are ach
ieved in all categories by the scenarios examining increased demand management, energy efficiency, energy generation, and additional energy recovery from biosolids. The scenarios which examined desalination of seawater and the upgrades of major coastal sewage treatment plants to secondary and tertiary treatment produced an improvement in one environmental indicator but deteriorations in all the other impact categories, indicating the environmental tradeoffs within the system. The desalination scenario produced a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions due to coal-fired electricity generation for a small increase in water supply. Assessment of a greenfield scenario incorporating water demand management, on-site treatment, local irrigation, and centralized biosolids treatment indicates significant environmental improvements are possible relative to the assessment of a conventional system of corresponding scale.Exergy analysis is a thermodynamic approach used for analyzing and improving the efficiency of chemical and thermal processes. It has also been extended for life cycle assessment and sustainability evaluation of industrial products and processes. Although these extensions recognize the importance of capital and labor inputs and environmental impact, most of them ignore the crucial role that ecosystems play in sustaining all industrial activity. Decisions based on approaches that take nature for granted continue to cause significant deterioration in the ability of ecosystems to provide goods and services that are essential for every human activity. Accounting for nature's contribution is also important for determining the impact and sustainablility of industrial activity. In contrast, emergy analysis, a thermodynamic method from systems ecology, does account for ecosystems, but has encountered a lot of resistance and criticism, particularly from economists, physicists, and engineers. This paper expands the engineering concept of Cumulative Exergy Consumption (CEC) analysis to include the contribution of ecosystems, which leads to the concept of Ecological Cumulative Exergy Consumption (ECEC). Practical challenges in computing ECEC for industrial processes are identified and a formal algorithm based on network algebra is proposed. ECEC is shown to be closely related to emergy, and both concepts become equivalent if the analysis boundary, allocation method, and approach for combining global energy inputs are identical. This insight permits combination of the best features of emergy and exergy analysis, and shows that most of the controversial aspects of emergy analysis need not hinder its use for including the exergetic contribution of ecosystems. Examples illustrate the approach and highlight the potential benefits of accounting for nature's contribution to industrial activity.This paper compares available options for the aquatic ecotoxicological effect factor component in life-cycle assessment (LCA). The effect factor is expressed here as the change in risk per unit change in cumulative exposure, Deltaeffect/Deltaexposure. The comparison is restricted to approaches linked, implicitly as well as explicitly, to species-sensitivity distributions (SSDs). This draws on recent insights for chemical mixtures and identifies the implications of different model choices. In spite of the many options, assumptions, and areas for further re
search, it is concluded that a single effect factor basis represents the best available practice for use in LCA at this time, DeltaPAF(ms)/DeltaC = 0.5/HC50, where DeltaPAF(ms) is the change in the (potentially affected) fraction (PAF) of species that experiences an increase in exposure above a specified effect level, accounting for the presence of complex background mixtures (ms), DeltaC is the change in cumulative exposure concentration of the chemical of interest, and HC50 is the median, chronic hazardous concentration for regional, multiple-species systems. The resultant aquatic effect factors are risk-based and can be estimated readily for many chemicals using available methods, without the need to describe the entire SSDs and without the need for additional data. For example, the octanol-water partitioning coefficient provides a sufficient estimation basis for about 50% of existing chemicals that have a narcosis mode of action. This also is relevant in LCA for chemicals that are at low concentrations in the environment, concentrations below the biological thresholds at which more specific modes of action would be of relevance.The greening of new product development process has been under scrutiny by researchers, but the attention has been limited to consumer products. Based on a survey, this paper investigates the environmental responsiveness in industrial new product development in 82 industrial firms. In comparison to traditional NPD process in the extant literature, the findings revealed additional activities in the greening of industrial NPD. These activities fall under the broader scope of life cycle assessment (LCA) for environmental impact including supplier evaluation and design for environment issues. The paper also investigates the relative impact of organizational antecedents on greening of industrial NPD activities. Organizational antecedents include functional interface of environmental specialists with design and product managers, environmental product policy, and top management support. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.The Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is a very useful tool of management, which is been speedy developed in Europe, United State and some countries of Asia. The objective of this paper is investigating the use of this tool in the country's organizations, specialty in the industries. For this purpose a general scanning about its characteristics is done. Complementarity, an analysis of the consequences of the international standardization of Ecolabelling Type III is carried out. This Ecolabelling demands the use of LCA. The conclusions of the paper show the LCA is a suitable tool of environmental management, which must be applied the from process engineering point of view. The use of LCA is very important, because it lets see all the product manufacturing process. Besides, it could be very interesting to join information to design public policies. From the international trade point of view, the non-implementation of this tool may constitute an obstacle to sell products to other markets in the future At lost, the principal impediment for the applications of LCA in Uruguay is the lack of information.The objectives of this study were to evaluate the environmental impacts of a beef-fattening system using the life-cycle assessment (LCA) method and to investigate the effects of feeding length on the LCA resu
lts. The functional unit was defined as one animal, and the stages associated with the beef-fattening life cycle, such as feed (concentrate and roughage) production, feed transport, animal management, animal body (i.e., biological activity of cattle), and the treatment of cattle wastes, were included in the system boundary. Our results suggest that enteric or gut CH4 emissions of cattle were the major source in the impact category of global warming (2,851 kg Of CO2 equivalents), whereas NH3 emissions from cattle waste were the major source in the impact categories of acidification (35.1 kg Of SO2 equivalents) and eutrophication (6.16 kg Of PO4 equivalents). Feed production also contributed a great deal to all categories. A shorter feeding length resulted in lower environmental impacts in all the environmental impact categories examined in the current study, such as global warming and acidification, although there was a difference in effect of reducing environmental impacts among the categories.There is ongoing debate concerning the possible environmental and human health impacts of growing genetically modified (GM) crops. Here, we report the results of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) comparing the environmental and human health impacts of conventional sugar beet growing regimes in the UK and Germany with those that might be expected if GM herbicide-tolerant (to glyphosate) sugar beet is commercialized. The results presented for a number of environmental and human health impact categories suggest that growing the GM herbicide-tolerant crop would be less harmful to the environment and human health than growing the conventional crop, largely due to lower emissions from herbicide manufacture, transport and field operations. Emissions contributing to negative environmental impacts, such as global warming, ozone depletion, ecotoxicity of water and acidification and nutrification of soil and water, were much lower for the herbicide-tolerant crop than for the conventional crop. Emissions contributing to summer smog, toxic particulate matter and carcinogenicity, which have negative human health impacts, were also substantially lower for the herbicide-tolerant crop. The environmental and human health impacts of growing GM crops need to be assessed on a case-by-case basis using a holistic approach. LCA is a valuable technique for helping to undertake such assessments.The environmental and economic consequences of four recycling and disposal options for municipal sewage sludge have been assessed. The four options were: agricultural application, co-incineration with waste, incineration combined with phosphorus recovery (Bio-Con) and fractionation including phosphorus recovery (Cambi-KREPRO). Life cycle assessment (LCA) was used to assess the environmental consequences, while effects in the district heating system were analysed using the energy system model MARTES. Co-incineration had the best energy balance, but without recovery of phosphorus. In the Bio-Con and Cambi-KREPRO processes both phosphorus and energy could be recovered. Compared to Cambi-KREPRO, Bio-Con was more effective in most respects, but suffered from higher emissions to air. Spreading sludge on agricultural land was the least preferable option from an environmental point of view. Energy was required for transportation, spreading and pasteurisation of the sludge, whereas the other three
 options enabled energy recovery. Spreading also caused release of nutrients and acidifying substances and transferred the content of heavy metals in the sludge to agricultural soil. The economic assessment showed that agricultural application had the lowest cost of the options, whereas co-incineration had the highest cost. The difference in cost between Bio-Con and Cambi-KREPRO was small, but since the technologies are new and untried in a commercial context, these results are uncertain. This study has shown that two sludge handling options, incineration and direct application to agricultural soil, have respectively economic and environmental restrictions. The development of relatively low cost phosphorus recovery technologies has the potential to reconcile the environmental and economic aspects of sustainability. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Environmental aspects of using supercritical water oxidation (SCWO) to treat sewage sludge were studied using a life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. The system studied is the first commercial scale SCWO plant for sewage sludge in the world, treating sludge from the municipal wastewater treatment facility in Harlingen, TX, USA. The environmental impacts were evaluated using three specific environmental attributes: global warming potential (GWP), photo-oxidant creation potential (POCP) and resource depletion; as well as two single point indicators: EPS2000 and EcoIndicator99. The LCA results show that for the described process, gas-fired preheating of the sludge is the major contributor to environmental impacts, and emissions from generating electricity for pumping and for oxygen production are also important. Overall, SCWO processing of undigested sewage sludge is an environmentally attractive technology, particularly when heat is recovered from the process. Energy-conserving measures and recovery of excess oxygen from the SCWO process should be considered for improving the sustainability potential. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The objective of this work is to evaluate the contribution of the several household water heating systems to global warming using the life cycle analysis. The systems studied were the electric showerhead, the passage gas heater and the solar heater. The water heating systems can pollute the environment through the emission of greenhouse gases which occurs during the generation of electric power for manufacturing the components of these systems and the use of the electric showerheads and resistances of the boilers of the solar systems, and during the combustion of fossil fuels gas heaters and transport of the heating system's components. The results show that, for the adopted parameters, the electric showerhead consumes the most electric power and emits the most pollutants during its life cycle. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The principles of the Rio Conference (1992) and Agenda 21 address the pressing problems of today and also aim at preparing the world for the challenges of this century. The conservation and management of resources for development are the main foci of interest, to which chemistry will have to make a considerable contribution. Since base chemicals are produced in large quantities and important product lines are synthesized from them, their resource-saving production is especially important for a sustainable develop
ment. New processes based on renewable feedstocks are significant here. Most products that are obtained from renewable raw materials may, at present, not be able to compete with the products of the petrochemical industry, but this will change as oil becomes scarcer and oil prices rise. The design of chemical products should make sustainable processing and recycling possible, and should prevent their bioaccumulation. Methods and criteria to assess their contribution to a sustainable development are necessary. The time necessary to introduce the new more sustainable processes and products has to be diminished by linking their development with operational innovation management and with efficient environmental-political control procedures. (C) 2004 Academie des sciences. Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.The role of life cycle analysis (LCA) in identifying and measuring the environmental impact of extended supply chains, i.e., chains involving both forward and reverse activities, is very important. Particularly, in the case of alternative supply chain management policies or scenarios, life cycle analysis may significantly help to quantify the environmental result of these alternatives for the purpose of comparison and decision making. It is debatable, however, whether such comparison is always possible. Indeed, life cycle analysis has often raised discussion and disagreements, especially regarding the stage of Impact Assessment (valuation), and, until now, there is no generally accepted framework of analysis. In this paper, different models are used in order to extend the usability of the Environmental Design of Industrial Products method of Impact Assessment. Furthermore, research results that are produced by applying different methods of Impact Assessment are examined in the cases of the recovery and disposal chains of lead-acid batteries. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) devices can utilize either a conventional copper magnet or a superconducting NbTi magnet. In this study, copper and NbTi large bore magnets were designed by numerical optimization procedure for optimum wire length. The optimized magnets represent roughly the main coils of an MRI system. Then, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was used to compare the environmental impact of these two types of magnets. LCA is an established tool to investigate the interaction between a product and the environment. In the inventory phase of LCA all material inputs, energy consumption, wastes and emissions to air and water are assessed, beginning from the extraction of raw materials and ending to the delivery of products from the factories. The optimization results showed that the construction of the copper magnet requires much more wire than the NbTi one. However, the manufacturing of NbTi/Cu wire requires more raw materials and is more energy-intensive than the manufacturing of copper wire per unit ton. Thus, more wastes and emissions to air and water are generated during the production of NbTi/Cu wire, but when the magnets were compared the results became reversed.Environmental considerations have led to the phase out of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) refrigerants from the domestic refrigeration industry. One intriguing aspect is that the chlorine in CFCs is a good lubricating agent and any deterioration of system performance may adversely influence other
 environmental considerations. Based on this consideration, the aim of this research is to address the sustainable development of domestic refrigeration systems using the replacement refrigerant HFC-134a. The work focuses on the emissions that may arise if the electrical consumption of the product deteriorates or its durability is curtailed. Tribological characteristics on compressor components influence both of these product attributes and therefore a thorough system analysis was carried out. An in-house built experimental test rig, which monitored slight variations in the electrical power drawn by a reciprocating hermetic compressor, was used Under different experimental conditions. Furthermore, a detailed life cycle assessment on a domestic refrigerator was performed to help quantify the ensuing environmental burdens. In this way, a relation between tribological characteristics, power consumption and environmental impact was studied. This paper shows that the CFC substitute will increase friction and wear characteristics on the aluminium alloy Connecting rod and the steel gudgeon pin. These characteristics may contribute to the observed increase in the electrical energy consumption of the compressor such that the indirect global warming implications rise with HFC-134a. If the sustainable development of this product is to be ascertained then a change in refrigerants alone will not suffice. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents a system's engineering model for the strategic planning of an integrated solid waste management at local level and more specifically in an island with touristic development. The model was developed for the island of Corfu, but it can also be implemented in other touristic islands all over the world. It combines the worth benefit utility analysis (WBU) with the life cycle analysis (LCA), taking into account environmental, financial, technological and social criteria. The model's implementation in the island of Corfu demonstrates that the most efficient method for the waste disposal in Corfu is the combination of the material sorting at the waste source and the production of compost from the organic fraction. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Because of the toxic characteristics of lead, the lead industry is potentially faced with a significant constriction of its future markets if it fails to satisfy regulators and communities that its products will be dealt with in ways that offer the highest level of safety. Legislation banning various lead products in different countries continues to expand, particularly within Europe. Denmark has banned the use of lead compounds. The lead industry is currently coordinating (through the London-based Lead Development Association International) the voluntary lead risk assessment in Europe. This assessment is providing valuable research data associated with the ecotoxicity of lead. Building on this, and addressing the issue of changing and improving practices associated with lead, the green lead project is being created as a product stewardship initiative of the lead industry. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier B.V.To reduce environmental damage, the properties of environmental issues must be understood. Most previous research has performed relevant assessment either qualitatively or quantitatively. This paper provides a new comprehensive evaluative fr
amework to integrate these two types of approaches. Three methods are combined: (1) life cycle assessment (LCA), a quantitative method, to assess environmental loading, (2) analytic hierarchy process (AHP), a qualitative method, to obtain opinions from experts, and (3) cluster analysis to integrate the results of the former two methods. This new framework could provide integrated information and avoid a bias towards either qualitative or quantitative approach. To present the process of this new evaluative framework, packaging materials are selected as the case study in this paper. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Landfill-gas (LFG) is produced as result of the biological reaction of municipal solid waste (MSW). This gas contains about 50% of methane, therefore it cannot be released into the atmosphere as it is because of its greenhouse effect consequences. The high percentage of methane encouraged researchers to find solutions to recover the related energy content for electric energy production. The most common technologies used at the present time are internal combustion reciprocating engines and gas turbines. High conversion efficiency guaranteed by fuel cells (FCs) enable to enhance the energy recovery process and to reduce emissions to air, such as NO, and CO. In any case, in order to investigate the environmental advantages associated with the electric energy generation using fuel cells, it is imperative to consider the whole "life cycle" of the system, "from cradle-to-grave". In fact, fuel cells are considered to be zero-emission devices, but, for example, emissions associated with their manufacture or for hydrogen production must be considered in order to evaluate all impacts on the environment. In the present work a molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC) system for LFG recovery is considered and a life cycle assessment (LCA) is conducted for an evaluation of environmental consequences and to provide a guide for further environmental impact reduction. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.In the next future coal will play an increasing important role in electricity production due to the abundant reserves worldwide. In order to design new production scenarios. environmental issues have to be carefully considered. We used Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to compare, from an environmental point of view, six scenarios of electricity production by combustion of coal, coal cleaning by-products, biomass and petroleum coke. considering two existing combustion plants, de-NO, and de-SOx processes and coal ash valorisation options. The results showed that the more environmentally responsible scenarios include biomass co-combustion and gas treatment techniques and enlightened some options for further improvements. Finally the results confirmed the usefulness of LCA in the environmental innovation of industrial systems. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper focuses on the treatment of household waste by waste-to-energy conversion. It assesses, in particular, both technical and environmental implications of a waste pre-sorting that may affect the treatment process. To this end, a life cycle assessment study has been undertaken. The scope of the study encompassed material recycling, incineration of household waste, treatment of flue gases, energy recovery, recycling of bottom ash, treatment of fly ash and final disposal of wa
ste. The study showed that material recycling leads to an improvement of the working conditions with respect to the incinerator. However, material recycling leads to a decrease of the energy recovery so that it is necessary to use additional boilers to meet the initial energy demand. The related impacts tend to offset the environmental benefits derived by the waste recycling itself. The study also demonstrated that the life cycle approach is a useful tool for the study of technical and environmental aspects of an energy system. Moreover, those aspects in the process that are open to improvement have been identified. (C) 2003 Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.Essential requirements for biofuel are that (a) it should be produced from renewable raw material, and (b) it should have a lower negative environmental impact than that of fossil fuels. Apart from direct assessment of the engine emissions, environmental impact is also determined by performing life cycle analysis. Life cycle energy balance depends on specific climatic conditions and the agro- and processing technologies used. Rapeseed oil methyl ester life cycle energy ratios in Lithuanian conditions have been calculated as a function of rapeseed productivity, oil pressing and transesterification technologies used. Opportunities to improve biodiesel fuel life cycle energy efficiency, by implementing new technologies in agriculture as well as in industrial processing, were reviewed. The effectiveness of new technologies was evaluated on the basis of energy balance comparison. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The selection of an appropriate "optimal" recycling alternative has to take into consideration both the ecological and economic effects of the entire life-cycle. The aim of this paper is to compare different waste management systems by means of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) and a cost comparison. The analysis uses data regarding the amount of household waste generated, collected and treated in a selected area in Austria. For this purpose, model-based scenarios with recycling and separate collection as well as scenarios without recycling were created. The database covers the amounts of household waste generated in the different collection schemes, the transport distances by private delivery and by regional waste management companies and data on the waste treatment processes that are widely employed throughout Austria and Germany. The resulting life-cycle inventories have been assessed according to three impact categories relevant to this topic-the global warming potential (GWP), the acidification potential (AP) and the net energy use (NEU). The results include ecological impact analyses and cost comparisons for the overall waste management systems and the waste management systems for the individual waste types-waste paper, plastic packaging, metal packaging and waste glass. Finally, a sensitivity analysis should prove the validity of the results for regions with transport distances differing from those in the area under analysis. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.The aim of this paper is to propose a model that allows us to add value for customer to a product, by means of the integration of the environmental, cost and customer valuation during its design process. This model is based on the combination of three methodologies: Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology 
to evaluate the environmental requirements, Life Cycle Cost (LCC) to examine the internal and external costs of the product, and Contingent Valuation (CV) to quantify the customer's value in terms of his/her willingness-to-pay (WTP) for a product that incorporates certain environmental improvements. As a result, it can be concluded that the product value can be increased with the use of a design that reduces simultaneously the environmental impact and external costs besides allowing manufacturer company to follow the maximum profit strategy. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.Vehicles typically deteriorate with accumulating mileage and emit more tailpipe air pollutants per mile. Although incentive programs for scrapping old, high-emitting vehicles have been implemented to reduce urban air pollutants and greenhouse gases, these policies may create additional sales of new vehicles as well. From a life cycle perspective, the emissions from both the additional vehicle production and scrapping need to be addressed when evaluating the benefits of scrapping older vehicles. This study explores an optimal fleet conversion policy based on mid-sized internal combustion engine vehicles in the US, defined as one that minimizes total life cycle emissions from the entire fleet of new and used vehicles. To describe vehicles' lifetime emission profiles as functions of accumulated mileage, a series of life cycle inventories characterizing environmental performance for vehicle production, use, and retirement was developed for each model year between 1981 and 2020. A simulation program is developed to investigate ideal and practical fleet conversion policies separately for three regulated pollutants (CO, NMHC, and NO,) and for CO2. According to the simulation results, accelerated scrapping policies are generally recommended to reduce regulated emissions, but they may increase greenhouse gases. Multi-objective analysis based on economic valuation methods was used to investigate trade-offs among emissions of different pollutants for optimal fleet conversion policies. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.There is an attractive analogy between nature and industry, based on the similarity of natural functions and certain industrial activities. For instance, animals ingest (eat) and digest food. Finally, there are metabolic wastes. Firms are analogous to organisms in several respects, insofar as they consume material resources, process (digest) them and produce output products and excrete wastes. Firms, like organisms, also compete with each other for resources. Curiously enough, one of the apparent differences between natural and man-made systems is actually not one; like the industrial system, the natural system does not recycle everything. However. there are at least four real and important differences between the biosphere (ecology) and the technosphere (economy). First, there is no primary producer in the economic system analogous to what photosynthesizers play in the biosphere. Inputs to the economy are mostly natural resources, capital services and labor. Second, in the economic system, output is a heterogeneous mix of manufactured products and services. Labor, in economics, is an input but not an output. The economic system recycles much less than the ecological system but utilizes a far greater suite of elements. In the biosphere, there are n
o products as such. Growth is tantamount to accumulation of embodied solar exergy in the form of cellulose, sugars, lipids and proteins. The biosphere produces only wastes and more of itself plus dead matter. Third, in the biosphere, there are no markets, there is no medium of exchange (like money) and there is nothing analogous to paid labor. Exchanges are involuntary (i.e., by predation, parasitism or theft.) Fourth, evolution in nature is driven by differentiation by random mutations of the genome and Darwinian selection based on reproductive success. In economics, differentiation is based on discovery, invention and innovation by intelligent economic agents and selection is based on competition at the individual or firm level. Either way, the economic system is not closely analogous to an ecosystem. Attempts to use ecological concepts in an economic context are often misleading and unjustified. The paper discusses the implications of the eco-eco mismatch for resource accounting and life cycle analysis. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.In contrast to macroscopic tools, life cycle assessment (LCA) starts from the microstructure of an economic system: the production and consumption of functional flows. Due to the level of resolution required for function-level details, the model used for LCA has relied on process-specific data and has treated the product system as a stand-alone system instead of a system embedded within a broader economic system. This separation causes various problems, including incompleteness of the system and loss of applicability for a variety of analytical tools developed for LCA or economic models. This study aims to link the functional flow-based, micro-level LCA system to its embedding, commodity-based, meso- or macro-level economic system represented by input-output accounts, resulting in a comprehensive ecological-economic model within a consistent and flexible mathematical framework. For this purpose, the LCA computational structure is reformulated into a functional flow by process framework and reintroduced in the context of the input-output tradition. It is argued that the model presented here overcomes the problem of incompleteness of the system and enables various analytical tools developed for LCA or input-output analysis (IOA) to be utilised for further analysis. The applicability of the model for cleaner production and supply chain management is demonstrated using a simplified product system and structural path analysis as an example. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Globally designers are concentrating on minimising the impact their buildings make on the environment. Although many claim their buildings to be sustainable, unless an objective analysis is carried out, it is not possible to determine the impact that a particular building has on the environment. This paper describes a method that has been developed at the University of Auckland for a detailed life cycle analysis of an individual house in New Zealand based on the embodied and operating energy requirements and life cycle cost over the useful life of the building. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Complexity issues in the ecological aspects of chemical engineering are of two kinds: the mutual interactions of many multi-scale systems and the lack of consilience in the objectives of different disciplines that conside
r the economic, philosophical, cultural, and scientific and engineering aspects, respectively. This paper discusses the second kind of complexity and the ecological issues in the different disciplines. Economic value, as expressed by market price, depends on whether limits on resources and the Earth's services due to the scale of human technological activities are taken into account. Human activities relative to the Earth's ecology require sustainability consideration. Two important stands on sustainability are discussed. Mainstream sustainability is a stand for continued economic growth to foster advances in technology to overcome the limits of the Earth. It requires technological activities to follow green chemistry and green engineering principles to develop innovations that are ecologically considerate. Environmental sustainability is a stand to stay within forecasted limits in the resources and renewability capacity of the Earth. The technology for this further includes using the principles of industrial ecology to locate ways to use wastes and recycle products as source materials for other processes to make and close material cycles. Chemical engineering innovations for increased atomic utilization of reactants, efficiency in energy use, dematerialization, non-toxicity, recyclability, and creative systemic cycling of materials for waste management are good for the ecology. Case studies are given showing the utility of following the principles developed for good ecological practice. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Waste disposal represents an important aspect of the policies of politics of developed countries. It is well known that waste management entails several social, economical and environmental aspects. Many different technical solutions have been proposed and evaluated, more or less complicated, from a social and economic point of view, but the environmental burden linked to these solutions still remains an open problem not definitively resolved yet. One of the most promising ways for investigating and comparing the environmental consequences connected to different human activities seems to be represented by the LCA analysis. In this work the LCA analysis of a micro-pyrolysis with micro-gas turbine waste to energy plant, has been performed with the aid of a commercial simulation code. The scenario is analysed with regard to a small, isolated, Italian town. A comparison between the current and proposed case has also been carried out. Copyright (C) 2004 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.In this paper, the results of an exergetic well-to-wheels analysis of a number of hydrogen production and hydrogen storage systems for automotive applications are given. A total of eight different fuel chains is exergetically analysed. Exergy analysis is shown to have considerable additional value compared to conventional energetic well-to-wheels analyses based on the lower or higher heating value of fuels under consideration. Exergy can be used for both fuel and non-fuel resources and can play an important role in the quantification of resource depletion in fuel chains. With exergy analysis, it is possible to determine thermodynamic limits of processes and to locate and interpret process losses. Exergy analysis is therefore a useful tool in process improvement and process comparison. Furthermore, exergy can play a role in the quantification of the
 effort it would take to abate or recycle waste streams. (C) 2003 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In the past, environmental activities in the food industry used to be focused on meeting the requirements set by authorities on waste and sewage disposal and, more recently, regarding emissions to air. Today environmental issues are considered an essential part of the corporate image in progressive food industries. To avoid sub-optimization, food waste management should involve assessing the environmental impact of the whole food chain. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an ISO-standardized method to assess the environmental impact of a food product. It evaluates the resources used to perform the different activities through the chain of production from raw material to the user step. It also summarizes the emission/waste to air, water, and land from the same activities throughout the chain. These emissions are then related to the major environmental concerns such as eutrophication, acidification, and ecotoxicity, the factors most relevant for the food sector. The food industry uses the LCAs to identify the steps in the food chain that have the largest impact on the environment in order to target the improvement efforts. It is then used to choose among alternatives in the selection of raw materials, packaging material, and other inputs as well as waste management strategies. A large number of food production chains have been assessed by LCAs over the years. This will be exemplified by a comparison of the environmental impact of ecologically grown raw materials to those conventionally grown. Today LCA is often integrated into process and product development, for example, in a project for reduction of water usage and waste valorization in a diversified dairy.This article presents an analysis of the environmental impact of the materials and processes typically used in the wood based furniture manufacturing sector. Life cycle assessment methodology was applied to different kinds of wood based boards, surface and edge coverings, and their respective manufacturing processes. For each of these, a life cycle inventory was completed and the environmental impact generated was analysed by applying the Eco-Indicator'99 method. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment was employed to compare the environmental impact of incineration and the landfilling of municipal solid waste in Sao Paulo City, Brazil. Incineration with energy recovery and landfilling treatment systems were assessed in five different scenarios. Three incineration scenarios with different ash treatment systems were evaluated: incineration with ash disposal, with ash melting, and with an ash reuse system (brick production). Two landfilling scenarios were evaluated, namely, with and without energy recovery. Energy consumption, recovered resources, and emissions to the air and water were quantified and analyzed in terms of their impact potentials. Global warming, acidification, and nutrient enrichment were assessed as environmental impact categories. Electricity generation in these waste treatment systems did not result in a significant reduction in overall environmental impact, because Brazilian electricity is mainly hydro-based. Incineration with ash disposal to a landfill site resulted in the lowest impact val
ues for all impact categories assessed in this study. Among the incineration scenarios, the reuse of ash for brick production resulted in a higher environmental impact due to an increase in energy consumption. Landfilling had a higher environmental impact than incineration. Landfilling with energy recovery had a slightly lower environmental impact than the landfillingwithout energy recovery. Finally, it was demonstrated that significant reductions in environmental impact could be obtained through a change in the solid waste management of Sao Paulo City. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.In Part 1 of the series, it was shown that there is-sufficient justification for the creation of a separate salinity impact category. In this paper, the fundamental basis of environmental life cycle assessments (LCA) is examined. The generalised model, and model simplifications on which the, life cycle assessment methodology is based is examined. the formulation of a characterisation model for salinity, which is a local or regional problem, requires the development of environmental fate models. An environmental late model currently in use to,calculate equivalency factors for toxicity effects is evaluated in terms of its applicability, for use as is, or in some modified form, to calculate equivalency factors for salinity. It is concluded that this model cannot be used, and a conceptual environmental fate model for salinity is proposed. The proposed conceptual model follows the same approach as models currently in use. It is proposed that a "unit South African catchment" be defined, and that non-steady state hydrological models currently in use in the country be used to predict the fate of salts in the various compartments defined for the "unit catchment".In Part 2 of this series of papers, a conceptual characterisation model was proposed for the inclusion of salinity impacts into environmental life cycle assessments. In this, the final part of the series, the results of a detailed characterisation model are presented. The methodologies used to define the "unit South African catchment" are discussed, as are the methods used to predict salt concentrations in the various compartments, from which fate factors are derived. The effect factors used in the study are presented, and in combination with the fate factors, salinity potentials are derived for emissions into the various initial release compartments. The total salinity potentials for emissions into the various initial release compartments are as follows: Initial release compartment Total salinity potential (kg TDS equ./kg) Atmosphere 0.013 Surface water 0.165 Natural surfaces 0.031 Agricultural surfaces 1.000 An additional impact category for salinity effects is therefore proposed, and the derived salinity potentials (also known as characterisation factors or equivalency factors) can be used in the classification and characterisation steps of conducting an environmental life cycle assessment to calculate the score for the impact category. The salinity potentials are only relevant to South African conditions, and their use in LCA in other countries may not be applicable. When applying the salinity potentials, the LCA practitioner should take care to prevent double accounting for certain impacts. Currently, this is simple because no equivalency factors exist for common ions, or for total dissolved s
alts as a lumped parameter.A representative leather tannery industry in a Latin American developing country has been studied from an environmental point of view, including both technical and economic analysis. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) methodology has been used for the quantification and evaluation of the impacts of the chromium tanning process as a basis to propose further improvement actions. Four main subsystems were considered: beamhouse, tanyard, retanning, and wood furnace. Damages to human health, ecosystem quality, and resources are mainly produced by the tanyard subsystem. The control and reduction of chromium and ammonia emissions are the critical points to be considered to improve the environmental performance of the process. Technologies available for improved management of chromium tanning were profoundly studied, and improvement actions related to optimized operational conditions and a high exhaustion chrome-tanning process were selected. These actions related to the implementation of internal procedures affected the economy of the process with savings ranging from US$ 8.63 to US$ 22.5 for the processing of 1 ton of wet salt hides, meanwhile the global environmental impact was reduced to 44-50%. Moreover, the treatment of wastewaters was considered in two scenarios. Primary treatment presented the largest reduction of the environmental impact of the tanning process, while no significant improvement for the evaluated impact categories was achieved when combining primary and secondary treatments.The objective of this study is to show how a life cycle assessment approach can be used to direct the development of technical activities according to environmental considerations. The case study deals with the remediation of a soil contaminated by sulfur in an industrial context. The environmental merits of four treatment techniques are compared by taking into account the raw materials and energy consumption, air and water emissions and waste production. First results are discussed criterion by criterion. It is shown that bio-leaching is the most energy-consuming technique, whereas liming requires the highest quantity of materials. Furthermore, results related to atmospheric emissions highlight the importance of transportation operations in the environmental balance especially in the case of offsite landfilling. As regards waste production, treatment techniques may be divided into two groups: on the one hand, liming and onsite containment which lead to great quantities stored onsite, on the other hand, offsite landfilling and bio-leaching for which waste is transported out of the site. Then, a multicriteria analysis enables to aggregate inventory results, avoiding compensation phenomena. Based on this analysis, onsite containment appears to be the most environmentally-friendly technique, whereas bio-leaching and offsite landfilling result in the most important environmental burdens. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Typically, in simulating the dynamic processes in buildings, data modeling efforts require the modeling of the building geometry, its components and the relationship between these components, as well as the modeling of the process that is under study. For example, in simulating the life cycle of a building, one must simulate the flow of materials as well as the flow of information as part of the process mo
deling, while a component model is needed to represent the building as an artefact. A third aspect of this modeling effort constitutes the simulation of human intervention, i.e. the decision process that might affect the nature of the building itself as well as the process that acts upon it. For example, the decision to remodel a certain component clearly affects both the component itself as well as the process of aging, when the life cycle of buildings is simulated. This paper looks at the data modeling requirements of the simulation of building life cycle within the context of the three parameters mentioned above: data model for buildings, process models, and decision models. Temporal issues in data modeling, such as versioning for components, keeping track of data that are related to change and remodeling, and buildings as temporal-spatial entities for life cycle analysis purposes are also addressed. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) has become a common and accepted too] for quantifying the environmental impact of products. It is frequently used in some industrial sectors but this is not the case for construction products like cement. Reliable LCA require the use of reliable Life-Cycle Inventories (LCI); this is an important point because in Spain reliable LCI are scarce. An analysis of available LCI of different European cements is presented in this paper. This analysis includes the strengths and weaknesses of such inventories.Intake fractions (iFs) for emissions to air, water, and soil for 17 PCDDs/DFs and 12 Co-PCBs were calculated with a level III multimedia model and a food-chain exposure model in succession. The two integrated models were tested by comparing the predicted and measured concentrations in the environment and by comparing intakes through food. Measurement-based iFs were also calculated and compared with the model-based iFs. The air concentrations predicted by the fate model were close to the median of the observed concentrations, whereas the predicted soil and water concentrations were one-third to one-tenth the observed concentrations. This difference was large in case of PCDDs and Co-PCBs, which was explained by the past pollution such as commercial PCB products and PCDD impurities in chloronitrofen (CNP) and pentachlorophenol (PCP). For fish, the predicted and observed exposures agreed well each other. For meat and milk, the predicted exposures were about 10 times the observed exposures for PCDDs/DFs, whereas the predicted and observed values agreed well for Co-PCBs. When the model was modified to consider feeding of fish meal to livestock and geographic bias in feed-grass production, the predicted congener profile was comparable to the measured profile. The comparison also suggested that chickens should be modeled separately from other terrestrial livestock. The model-based iFs for air emission of OCDD and 2378-TCDD were 0.001% and 0.1%, respectively. The iFs of most Co-PCBs were higher than those of PCDDs/DFs. These iF differences suggest the importance of the fate factor in assessing emissions of the 29 congeners. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In the paper the future of hydrogen infrastructure for fuel cell vehicles in China is discussed. It is believed that, China should make different plans of hydrogen infrastructure during different periods and in different r
egions. Besides, a case of application in Beijing is studied to find the best plan for Beijing to develop hydrogen infrastructure in 2008 when Olympic Games will be held. In the study of that case, 11 feasible plans are designed at first according to the current technology of production, storage and transportation of hydrogen in China. After that, the energy, environmental and economic performances of these plans are evaluated with "life cycle assessment". Finally, the best plan in the case is picked out from all the aspects of energy, environment and economy. (C) 2003 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This article explores the relevance of sustainable business development for society and the state. Sustainability of enterprises can be defined as demonstrating the ability to be capable of continuing the same type of business in the lifetime of the next generation. In the case of Swiss dairy farms, this type of sustainability may also depend on the willingness of the government and society to make the necessary financial adjustments. Sustainability indicators for such farms are, therefore, related to ecological and social benefits rather than simply to economic success. To evaluate the role of Swiss dairy farms, a system with economic, ecological and social indicators for measuring their sustainability would be valuable. This approach creates an integration of sustainability life-cycle assessment factors of enterprises, on the one hand, and purely economic business indicators, on the other. The approach developed in this article would be of interest to all sectors that depend on public support.A streamlined (simplified) life cycle assessment of a conventional wooden pallet and an all-weather, washable, re-usable and fully recyclable plastic bulk transit packaging system used to transport empty yoghurt pottles, has been conducted using surrogate/proxy data from the Environmental Priorities Strategy (EPS) 2000 Default Method. This paper accounts for the life cycle inventory for each material used in the two transit packaging systems and their associated fabrication processes. The life cycle assessment was simplified by ignoring common factors such as the common nylon strap of both packaging systems, the common in-house transportation, and the manufacture and maintenance of capital equipment. The system boundaries and assumptions made are also discussed. The functional unit adopted was the Environmental Load Units (ELU) of the EPS 2000 Default Method. The grand overall ELU for the wooden pallet and plastic packaging system are computed by considering the weight of the material, the volume of inventory and the distance travelled. The ELU of the wooden pallet was 18.455, while that for the plastic packaging was 4.574 at a 96.5% level of certainty. In the case of the wooden pallet, truck transport, the corrugated cardboard boxes and the LDPE liner and shrinkwrap impacted the environment most, while for the plastic packaging system truck transport and the LDPE liner were significant. The plastic packaging has a lower environmental impact than the wooden pallet for various reasons. It is lighter in weight, has more re-usable parts and can transport more yoghurt pottles per trip. It has a long service life and is virtually fully recyclable. Copyright (C) 2004 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.A life cy
cle assessment was conducted to evaluate the environmental performance of the yogurt product delivery system used by Stonyfield Farm. A life cycle model was developed which included material production, manufacturing and disposition for primary and secondary packaging, as well as the related transportation links between these stages and filling, retail and the point of consumption. Product delivery systems (PDS) that utilized 4, 6, 8 and 32 oz polypropylene (PP) cups and 2 oz linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE) tubes were analysed. Ten strategies for improving the environmental performance of these systems were proposed and their impacts on the total life cycle burden were analysed. The life cycle energy consumption for the 2, 4, 6, 8 and 32 oz containers was 4050, 4670, 5230, 4390 and 3620MJ/1000lb yogurt delivered to market, respectively. Material production of the primary packaging accounted for 58% of the life cycle energy, while Distribution 3 (yogurt delivery to distributors/retailers) alone accounted for one-third of the life cycle total energy. The life cycle solid waste profile showed that as the container size decreased, the solid waste burden increased, from 27.3 kg (32 oz) to 42.8 kg (6 oz) per 1000 lb yogurt delivered to market. This relationship was even more pronounced for the 4 oz (47.5 kg) and 2 oz (56.2 kg) product delivery systems. The greatest potential improvements in the environmental performance of the PDS are achievable through redesigning the primary packaging and using alternative manufacturing techniques for the yogurt cups. Shifting from injection moulding to thermoforming of 32 oz container reduces the life cycle energy and solid waste by 18.6% and 19.5%, respectively, primarily due to light-weighting. Elimination of lids for 6 oz and 8 oz containers provided similar benefits. Consumers purchasing yogurt in 32 oz instead of 6 oz containers can save 14.5% of the life cycle energy and decrease solid waste by 27.2%. Copyright (C) 2004 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.A CO2 comprehensive balance within the life-cycle of a photovoltaic energy system requires careful examination of the CO2 sinks and sources at the locations and under the conditions of production of each component, during transport, installation and operation, as well as at the site of recycling. Calculations of the possible effect on CO2 reduction by PV energy systems may be incorrect if system borders are not set wide enough and remain on a national level, as can be found in the literature. For the examples of Brazil and Germany, the effective CO2 reductions have been derived, also considering possible interchange scenarios for production and operation of the PV systems considering the carbon dioxide intensity of the local electricity grids. In the case of Brazil also off-grid applications and the substitution of diesel generating sets by photovoltaics are examined: CO2 reduction may reach 26,805 kg/kW(p) in that case. Doing these calculations, the compositions of the local grids and their CO2 intensity at the time of PV grid injection have to be taken into account. Also possible changes of the generation fuel mix in the future have to be considered: During the operation time of a PV system, different kinds of power plants could be installed that might change the CO2 intensity of the grid. In the future also advanced technologies such as thin films have to
 be considered. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A life-cycle assessment of a single product can produce substantially varying results that depend on the location of production. It is the aim of this study to provide an example of this geographical variability by examining the energy and CO2 embodied in a particular wind-turbine manufactured in Brazil and in Germany. Our results demonstrate the importance of adequately considering the background system of the local economy. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.During the last decades there has been an increasing interest in environmental assessments of the built environment. As a result, we can find several qualitative and quantitative assessment tools. With an increasing understanding of cities and the built environment as systems metabolising matter and energy, the use of quantitative tools are expected to increase, making it relevant to ask for their status of development. Aiming to give an overview of the present status of quantitative tools, as a basis for further research and development, this paper describes and compares five different tools for quantitative environmental assessment of the built environment. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The goal of this paper is to assess the relative impacts of pest-control methods in greenhouses, based on current LCA tools. As a case study, the relative impacts of two tomato production methods, chemical pest management (CPM) and integrated pest management (IPM), are assessed. The amount of the active ingredients applied, the fate of the ingredients in the various greenhouse and environmental compartments, the human exposure routes via the various compartments and the inherent toxicity of the ingredients were taken into account in the relative impact calculations. To assess the importance of model selection in the assessment, pesticide-specific fate and exposure factors for humans and aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, used to aggregate pesticide emissions, were calculated with two different models: (1) the USES-LCA model, adapted in order to calculate the pesticide transfer from greenhouse air and soil to fruits, and (2) the empirical model critical surface time (CST). Impact scores have in general shown a higher level of potential contamination in greenhouses treated with CPM compared to IPM (a factor of 1.4 to 2.3). Relative impacts have been shown highly dependent on the selection of specific pesticides and crop stage development at the moment of pesticide application. This means that both CPM and IPM could be improved by a careful selection of pesticides. In order to improve the relative impact calculations, future research in pesticide transfer to food will be necessary. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) is a method for evaluating the environmental impacts of products holistically, including direct and supply chain impacts. The current LCA methodologies and the standards by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) impose practical difficulties for drawing system boundaries; decisions on inclusion or exclusion of processes in an analysis (the cutoff criteria) are typically not made on a scientific basis. In particular, the requirement of deciding which processes could be excluded from the inventory can be rather difficult to meet because many excluded processe
s have often never been assessed by the practitioner, and therefore,their negligibility cannot be guaranteed. LCA studies utilizing economic input-output analysis have shown that, in practice, excluded processes can contribute as Much to the product system under study as included processes; thus, the subjective determination of the system boundary may lead to invalid results. System boundaries in LCA are discussed herein with particular attention to outlining hybrid approaches as methods for resolving the boundary selection problem in LCA. An input-output model can be used to describe at least a part of a product system, and an ISO-compatible system boundary selection procedure can be designed by applying hybrid input-output-assisted approaches. There are several hybrid input-output analysis-based LCA methods that can be implemented in practice for broadening system boundary and also for ISO compliance.A new life cycle assessment (LCA) method is presented, which is specifically tailored to plant nutrition in arable crop production. Generally, LCA is a methodology to assess all environmental impacts associated with a product or a process by accounting and evaluating its resource consumption and emissions. In LCA studies the entire production system should be considered, i.e. for crop production systems the analysis includes not only the on-field activities, but also all impacts related to the production of raw materials (minerals, fossil fuels) and farm inputs like fertilizers, plant protection substances, machinery or seeds. The LCA method developed in this study evaluates the impact of emissions and resource consumption associated with crop production on the following environmental effects: depletion of abiotic resources, land use, climate change, toxicity, acidification, and eutrophication. In order to enable conclusions on the overall environmental impact of alternative crop nutrition systems, an aggregation procedure to calculate indicators for resource depletion (RDI) and environmental impacts (EcoX) has been developed. The higher the EcoX value, the higher is the overall environmental burden associated with the product under investigation. An environmental analysis of arable crop production systems based on this LCA method is especially appropriate in order to: (1) detect environmental hot spots in the system; (2) trace back environmental impacts of arable farming products to their sources and on that basis to suggest options for improvement; and (3) contribute to the debate on the environmental preference of alternative cropping systems in an informed way. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This study examined the environmental impact of different nitrogen (N) fertilizer rates in winter wheat production by using a new life cycle assessment (LCA) method, which was specifically tailored to crop production. The wheat production system studied was designed according to,"good agricultural practice". Information on crop yield response to different N rates was taken from a long-term field trial in the UK (Broadbalk Experiment, Rothamsted). The analysis considered the entire system, which was required to produce 1 ton of wheat grain. It included the extraction of raw materials (e.g. fossil fuels, minerals), the production and transportation of farming inputs (e.g. fertilizers) and all agricultural operations in the field (e.g. till
age, harvest). In a first step, all emissions and the consumption of resources connected to the different processes were listed in a Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) and related to a common unit, which is 1 ton of grain. Next a Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) was done, in which the inventory data are aggregated into indicators for environmental effects, which included resource depletion, land use, climate change, toxicity, acidification, and eutrophication. After normalization and weighting of the indicator values it was possible to calculate summarizing indicators for resource depletion and environmental impacts (EcoX). At N rates of 48, 96, 144 or 192 kg N/ha the environmental indicator "EcoX" showed similar values per ton,of grain (0.16-0.22 Ecox/ton of grain). At N rates of zero, 240 and 288 kg N/ha the EcoX values were 100-232% higher compared with the lowest figure at an N rate of 96 kg N/ha. At very low N rates, 'land use' was the key-environmental-factor, whereas at high N rates 'eutrophication' was the major problem. The results revealed that agronomical optimal arable farming does not necessarily come into conflict with economic and environmental boundary conditions. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..Exergy analysis is shown to be an important tool for achieving sustainable development. By noting that energy can never be "lost," as it is conserved according to the first law of thermodynamics, while exergy can be lost due to internal irreversibilities, the study suggests that exergy losses, particularly due to the use of nonrenewable energy forms, should be minimized to attain sustainable development. Furthermore, several key thermodynamic concepts and the potential usefulness of exergy analysis are discussed, the linkages between exergy and environmental impact and sustainable development are introduced; and several key issues regarding sustainability and its consequences are addressed. Several case studies highlight the insights revealed using exergy and exergetic aspects of sustainability. It is concluded that the potential usefulness of exergy analysis in addressing sustainability issues and solving environmental problems is substantial.The decision of selecting building structures with respect to the environmental demand is an issue commonly addressed in environmental management. In this paper, the importance of considering the decision analysis technique value-focused thinking in the environmental selection of wall structures is investigated. In this context, a qualitative value model is developed in which the external and internal environmental factors are considered. The model is applied on a case study in which a decision should be made on three categories of exterior wall structures: wood, masonry and concrete. It is found that the wall structure made of wood is the most compatible option with respect to the external and internal environmental requirements of building structures. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) has been attracted and been already spread to the public as a technique evaluating the environmental impacts of product life cycle. LCA case study for lead-free solder, which is expected as eco-material has already been performed, but most of these studies are focused on LCI (Life Cycle Inventory) and characterization in LCIA (Life Cycle Impact Assessment). In the ca
se of the assessment of solder, the trade-off relationship between the human toxicity caused by the exposure of lead and global warming caused by the increase of energy use seems important. Conventional LCA case studies are difficult to solve this trade-off relationship, because LCI and characterization will not compare the seriousness of these environmental impacts. Based on the above background, we conducted LCIA case study of lead-free solder using LIME (Life-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling). We concentrated on the damage assessment for human health in order to solve the trade-off relationship between the impact categories. DALY (Disability Adjusted Life Year) is applied as the damage indicator in this study. It can be concluded that damage assessment enables to evaluate reasonably with comparing the several health impacts based on the scientific knowledge.This paper presents a systematic and hierarchical approach for incorporating environmental considerations into all stages of chemical process design. The complexity of the environmental and economic assessments increases as the design proceeds. The design method integrates computer-aided process simulation with a suite of environmental impact, economic, and decision analysis software tools. At the earliest design stage, the environmental assessment includes emission estimates from major process equipment, considers pollution control efficiency, and generates nine risk-based environmental impact indices. The economic assessment is based on the cost of raw materials and reaction stoichiometry. This assessment method was applied to the selection of alternative feedstocks for a reaction step: benzene versus n-butane for maleic anhydride (MA) production. Using known yields and selectivities, the n-butane route was shown to be superior to the benzene route in both the raw material cost and environmental impacts. After synthesis of a process flowsheet and simulation, a series of "process diagnostic summary" tables was generated to identify early process improvement strategies. An "improved" base-case flowsheet was developed, simulated, and assessed for profitability and environmental impacts. The improved n-butane process flowsheet after implementation of heat integration yielded an 80% reduction in utility costs and a 13% reduction in the aggregate environmental index compared to the base-case flowsheet. Then, several design tasks, such as equipment sizing, scaled gradient analysis, and multiobjective optimization using a genetic algorithm, were applied. After optimization, the economic performance of both the n-butane and benzene flowsheets was substantially bettered over the previously improved base-case flowsheets. The aggregate environmental index for the n-butane process was decreased to the greatest extent as a result of early design activities and negligibly as a result of detailed design and optimization. The opposite was observed for the benzene process. The reasons for this difference in system behavior are explained. The early screening environmental and economic assessment methods were shown to be accurate when compared to the more rigorous assessment methods. Optimum operating conditions of the processes (reaction temperature and pressure, mass separating agent flow rate, etc.) change significantly when the objective function for optimization is eithe
r an aggregate environmental index or a profitability index.The 1 billion gal of used oil generated in the U.S. each year are managed in three primary ways: rerefined into base oil for reuse, distilled into marine diesel oil fuel, and marketed as untreated fuel oil. Management of used oil has local, regional and global impacts. Because of the globally distributed nature of fuel markets, used oil as fuel has localized and regional impacts in many areas. In this paper, the human health and environmental tradeoffs of the management options are quantified and characterized. The goal of this study was to assess and compare the environmental impacts and benefits of each management method in a product end-of-life scenario using a life-cycle assessment (LCA) approach. A life-cycle inventory showed that 800 mg of zinc and 30 mg of lead air emissions may result from the combustion of 1 L of used oil as fuel (50-100 times that of crude-derived fuel oils). As an example, up to 136 Mg of zinc and 5 Mg of lead air emissions may be generated from combustion of over 50 M gal of California-generated used oil each year. While occurring elsewhere, these levels are significant (of the same magnitude as reported total stationary source emissions in California). An impact assessment showed that heavy metals-related toxicity dominates the comparison of management methods. Zinc and lead emissions were the primary contributors to the terrestrial and human toxicity impact potentials that were calculated to be 150 and 5 times higher, respectively, for used oil combusted as fuel than for rerefining or distillation. Low profits and weak markets increasingly drive the used oil management method selection toward the untreated fuel oil market. Instead, both the rerefining and distillation methods and associated product markets should be strongly supported because they are environmentally preferable to the combustion of unprocessed used oil as fuel.A product design system is considered from sustainability point of view. Information infrastructure is essential for life cycle assessment and life cycle cost evaluation. Take back is also based on useful information on the product life. This all was considered in the design of a complex informational infrastructure for sustainable product design. Here the basic concepts will be given together with some basic results already obtained.In modern design, environmentally conscious issues such as energy saving, recycling properties and maintenance etc must be considered in the product development process. Useful environmentally conscious information can be captured, analyzed and organized as design knowledge. Early design intent of a designer can be propagated to down stream design activities using this knowledge as an evaluation index. In this context, a design intent management (DIM) module associated with a life-cycle assessment (LCA) inventory, a feature coding design knowledge base, and an automatic function-to-form mapping module are developed concurrently and embedded in an Integrated Environmentally Conscious Design (IECD) system being developed in the Design Technology Research Centre of School of Design at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. A case study involving the design intent management module, the propagation module to follow-up design activities and a design knowledge base supporting decision making in engineeri
ng design process are presented in this paper. The capabilities of the current system being implemented are highlighted.Biopower (biomass-to-electricity generation), a proven electricity generating option in the United States and with about 11 GW of installed capacity, is the single largest source of non-hydro renewable electricity. The electricity production from biomass is being used and is expected to continue to be used as base-load power in the existing electrical distribution system. A series of case studies will be discussed for the three conversion routes for Combined Heat and Power (CHP) applications of biomass-direct combustion, gasification, and co-firing. The cost of electricity and cost of steam as a function of variables such as plant size and feed cost are estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis.The Mini-cold Storage, a new type of cold storages in producing field which is suitable to the present agriculture producing system in China, is the first step of the cold storage chain. Using LCA (life cycle assessment) method, the equation calculating the optimum thickness of the thermal insulating layer in life cycle was derived, and the optimum thickness of two thermal insulating layers made from two different insulators was calculated. Then the reducing time of mini-cold storage was introduced, and the equation calculating the reducing time was derived. The time was tested by the experiment. The results show that the optimum thickness has no relationship with the volume of mini-cold storage, and the reducing time will increase with the decrease of the heat conductivity coefficient of insulators.Power production systems are responsible for most local air pollutants as well as greenhouse gas emissions. Renewable energy technologies allow one to reduce atmospheric pollution, but their total environmental impact (all life cycle phases) should be carefully assessed to avoid environmental degradation. The aim of this work was to characterise with a quantitative criterion the environmental impact of the in-use technologies for power production and to develop a methodology based on a statistical approach that detects the cause-effect relationships. A general purpose methodology, based on the integration of LCA and MDA, was then implemented and applied for analysing the technological options provided by the Energy Plan of Basilicata Region (Southern Italy). An inventory analysis of the air pollutants emitted by these technologies was carried out using LCA. The inventory matrices were normalised and subsequently analysed by Cluster Analysis and Principal Component Analysis. In this way, the initial data were aggregated into statistically homogeneous groups and the principal components were individuated, characterising the relationships between technologies and pollutants. The integration of the two methods allows for improvement of the informative content of LCA results, broadening its possible fields of application.No other industry in the United States uses more materials by weight than the construction industry. Because of its economic strength and societal importance, it is also a significant polluter and a target of growing stakeholder scrutiny. This review offers an extended, supply chain inclusive framework for the study of the construction industry that serves all the life-cycle stages of society's infrastructure Systems,
 and it summarizes selected literature on the life-cycle environmental assessment of construction materials, designs, and processes. On the basis of identified knowledge gaps, a research agenda is discussed for lesser-studied questions in order to first understand and then eventually reduce the environmental impacts of construction materials, processes, and activities.We review the economics of electricity generated, or conserved, from a diverse range of fossil-fuel, nuclear, and renewable energy sources and energy efficiency options. At the same time, we survey the methods used to compute the costs of generated and delivered electricity and power, including bus bar costs; wholesale and retail marketplace costs; life-cycle accounting systems; premiums associated with political, social, and environmental risks; costs that reflect explicit and implicit subsidies; costs inclusive of externalities calculated by a variety of means; and net costs, including a range of proposed and potential environmental tax regimes. These diverse and at times conflicting analytic methods reflect a wide range of assumptions and biases in how the inputs for energy generation as well as how the subsidies and social and environmental costs are computed or, is often the case, neglected. This review and tutorial provides side-by-side comparisons of these methods, international cost comparisons, as well as analysis of the magnitude and effects of a range of technological, market-based, and subsidy-driven costs on the final price of electricity. Comparability of costs between supply and conservation technologies and methods in the energy sector has consistently been a problem, and the diversity of energy cost accounting schemes provides significant opportunity for very different arguments to be made for specific technologies, regulatory and market regimes, and a wide range of social and environmental taxes. We provide a review of the tools and a commentary on how these methods are used to determine the cost of energy services. The conclusion contains an analysis of how these methods of energy valuation are similar, how they differ, as well as an analysis of the explicit and implicit assumptions that underlie each approach.The objective of this study was to investigate the closely related species of currant aphid Aphis grossulariae Kalt. and Aphis triglochinis Theob.. Host plant specificity and life cycle analysis of these currant-inhabiting species are presented. We carried out experiments under natural conditions. Differences in life cycle were found between clones of A. grossulariae and clones of A. triglochinis preferred different secondary host plants. Our study revealed some clones of A. grossulariae that were capable of propagation on Ribes spp. throughout the season. These clones also colonized the secondary host, but mainly males and only a few gynoparae were produced. This confirms the existence of androcyclic clones in A. grossulariae. Secondary hosts of A. triglochinis belong to non-related plant families and this aphid species apparently discriminates between different herbaceous hosts. The existence of host races in A. triglochinis is possible. In order to investigate the differences between clones of the same species, we compared morphology and karyotype of typical host alternating clones of A. grossulariae with others. We found significant correlated di
fferences between the life cycle mode, host plant and some morphological characters. A preliminary comparison of relative lengths of chromosomes suggested that there might be interclonal differences between clones of A. grossulariae, having different host plant relationships.In the past two decades the global metalliferous mineral industry has trended away from pyrometallurgical (pyromet) and towards hydrometallurgical (hydromet) technologies including biometallurgical (biomet) processes. Pyromet, biomet and hydromet technologies have all developed considerably over this period. New projects have been biased or directed by legislation towards supposedly cleaner and greener hydromet and biomet technologies. The environmental cost and energy cost of pyromet production processes for copper and cobalt are compared with comparable hydromet processes' using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The 'real cost' of the global warming obsession and negative public perception of pyrometallurgy include greater carbon dioxide emissions and energy consumption per unit, associated with current hydromet technologies. Specific examples for copper and cobalt produced via the different routes are provided. The poor science involved with the global warming hypothesis is discussed. The use of LCA with sensitivity analysis as a decision making tool for mineral processing projects and technology developers is discussed.Production of rape methyl ester (RME) can be carried out with different systems solutions, in which the choice of system is usually related to the scale of the production. The purpose of this study was to analyse whether the use of a small-scale RME production system reduced the environmental load in comparison to a medium- and a large-scale system. To fulfil this purpose, a limited LCA, including air-emissions and energy requirements, was carried out for the three plant sizes. For small plants and physical allocation, the global warming potential was 40.3 g CO2-eq/MJ(fuel), the acidification potential 236 mg SO2-eq/MJ(fuel), the eutrophication potential 39.1 Mg PO43--eq/MJ(fuel), the photochemical oxidant creation potential 3.29 Mg C2H4-eq/MJ(fuel), and the energy requirement 295 kJ/MJ(fuel). It was shown that the differences in environmental impact and energy requirement between small-, medium- and large-scale systems were small or even negligible. The higher oil extraction efficiency and the more efficient use of machinery and buildings in the large-scale system were, to a certain degree, outweighed by the longer transport distances. The dominating production step was the cultivation, in which production of fertilisers, soil emissions and tractive power made major contributions to the environmental load. The results were, however, largely dependent on the method used for allocation of the environmental burden between the RME and the by-products meal and glycerine. This indicates that when different biofuels or production strategies are to be compared, it is important that the results are calculated with the same allocation strategies and system limitations. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Carbon dioxide inventory implications of a biodiesel program in the Philippines are assessed. Biodiesel is assumed to be the methyl ester of coconut oil. Different scenarios for the use of agricultural residues as fuel for heat or power generation are anal
yzed. Reduction in net CO2 emissions are estimated at 77-104 g/MJ of diesel displaced by biodiesel. These benefits are found to be particularly sensitive to the extent to which residues are utilized. The predicted reductions in CO2 emissions are much greater than values reported in recent studies on biodiesel derived from other vegetable oils, due both to the large amount of potential fuel in the residual biomass and to the low-energy inputs in traditional coconut fanning techniques. However, agricultural productivity constraints suggest that by 2010, the maximum level of biodiesel substitution for the entire country is only 8%. At this level of utilization reductions of 2.85-3.85% in the Philippines' projected 130 x 10(6) tons of carbon dioxide emissions per annum can be realized. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The design of a building facade influences internal thermal and lighting conditions and energy use associated with the provision of these conditions. Key decisions about the building facade are usually taken during the concept design stage of a building, while decisions about the method of providing the environmental conditions are often made later in the design process. This dilemma is addressed by the development of a concept design tool that allows the design team to investigate the effect of facade design on the resulting internal environmental conditions, energy use and environmental impact. The concept design tool was developed by performing detailed thermal, lighting and environmental modelling for a number of generic office building facade designs and a range of parameters that affect directly the environmental performance of an office building. The results are presented in a user-friendly interface requiring a minimum number of inputs. Key parameter outputs (such as temperature, lighting levels, heating/cooling energy demand, embodied energy and eco-points) can then be viewed, while a more detailed analysis can also be created for specified facade designs. A parametric analysis of the summary result outputs for selected facade parameters indicates that natural ventilation and cooling can reduce the environmental impact of offices by up to 16%, although heating energy demand could increase significantly. Improving the construction standard of the facade and reducing the internal heat loads can reduce the environmental impact by up to 22%. Use of this tool at early design stages will benefit the design team through an improved understanding of the dynamics between facade design and building services and assist with a more integrated approach.Natural fibers are emerging as low cost, lightweight and apparently environmentally superior alternatives to glass fibers in composites. We review select comparative life cycle assessment studies of natural fiber and glass fiber composites, and identify key drivers of their relative environmental performance. Natural fiber composites are likely to be environmentally superior to glass fiber composites in most cases for the following reasons: (1) natural fiber production has lower environmental impacts compared to glass fiber production; (2) natural fiber composites have higher fiber content for equivalent performance, reducing more polluting base polymer content; (3) the light-weight natural fiber composites improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions in the use phase of the
 component, especially in auto applications; and (4) end of life incineration of natural fibers results in recovered energy and carbon credits. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The main opportunities for SME's in Partners nations today are: 1. To increase the significance of SME's in the solving of Sustainable Development Tasks (Economy, Ecology and Social Problems in Integrity) 2. Processes of SME Restructuring, Privatization and Military Conversion in countries with transitional economies, taking account of market conditions. 3. Technological Business Incubation (TBI) as the tool and method of SME development. Here the most usable directions (approaches) are Technological Business Incubator ("Warmhouse") Technology as the tool and method of SME development. 4. Modern Information and Internet Technologies for SME development and cooperation. 5. Education and Training of military-oriented SME staff in Sustainable Development, Cleaner Production, Pollution Prevention, Energy Saving, Industrial Symbiosis and Life-Cycle Assessment directions. 6. Advanced Technologies for SME development.The Schools of Industrial Engineering and Civil Engineering teamed to develop a multi-disciplinary graduate course in Sustainable Design at Purdue University which was introduced fall 2003. In this paper, we show how to integrate industrial engineering and environmental engineering perspectives into a valuable sustainable design curriculum. References to sustainable design teaching materials and efforts are briefly summarized. The course curricula included design principles related to material selection and pollution prevention in process design, energy efficiency, consumer impacts, reuse, remanufacturing, and recycling. In addition, educational modules on product life-cycle assessment, environmental regulations, environmental costing, and corporate sustainability goals are discussed. Next, innovative teaching exercises to help students learn how to translate sustainable design concepts into practice are described. Student feedback on perceived changes in knowledge of sustainable design topics is reviewed. The paper concludes with recommendations for sustainable design curricula and teaching modules.One of the great challenges in the distributed enterprise computing is providing software systems with expected Quality-of-Service (QoS). For this purpose, it is very important to include QoS aspects in all the phases of the system development life cycle (analysis, design, deployment, etc.). This is enforced by the new approaches to system design, such as the model-driven approach called MDA (Model Driven Architecture). MDA is a modeling framework that improves the efficiency and decreases the complexity of the development of software system by allowing to model functional aspects independently of the underlying platform and the generation of its models in a target platform. In this context, this paper studies the model-driven development of distributed component-based so are applications with QoS support, which includes QoS specification and QoS monitoring. The proposal consists of applying the MDA principles to specify QoS aspects of component-based applications in parallel to the traditional design of the functional aspects. For this purpose, we define the following elements: a) a QoS catalogue to characterize a software component from the QoS point o
f view; b) a UML profile for modeling QoS contracts of component-based applications, and c) a UML profile for modeling the monitoring mechanisms employed to monitor that QoS. In addition to the description of all these elements, the paper will introduce a real scenario in which the proposed ideas have been tested and partially validated.Results from a joint US EPA and US electronics industry- funded life-cycle assessment of lead- and several lead-free alternative solders are presented. Impact scores are reported in 16 different environmental categories for reflow soldering applications. Solder pastes evaluated include tin-lead, tin-silver-copper, tin-silver-copper bismuth, and bismuth-tin-silver. During reflow applications, tin-lead solder paste was determined to have higher impact scores than the lead-free solders in six categories, while having lower impacts in five. The use/application stage was the dominant contributor to most impact categories, while upstream and end-of-life processes also made significant contributions to specific impact categories, depending on the solder. Sensitivity analyses of the effect of silver production as well as energy consumption during application are also presented for reflow soldering applications.According to the RoHS, from July 2006, the use of lead in electronics solders will be restricted for new products. EFSOT is an IMS-project, funded in the European Community within the FP5 GROWTH Programme, aiming at developing system solutions for advanced and sustainable lead-free soldering. Lead-free soldering and finish-materials are thought to be less toxic than lead-containing ones. But what about the environmental performance along the whole life cycle? Lead-free materials often contain precious metals. The environmental impact associated to the consumption of these metals is high. Additionally, the application of lead-free solders requires more energy. The present study includes a novel approach to modelling recycling in the field of LCA, as well as an inventory for the production of metals, which considers the interconnections between metal cycles. A comparison is made between lead-free and lead-containing solder materials. Finally, a guide of the major driving forces of the life cycle assessment is included, as well as an analysis of the role of recycling rates.D-Lamps are high intensity discharge lamps for car headlights, which are the new generation of automotive lighting for tomorrow, but available now. Because of their importance with respect to the materials used, a life cycle assessment has been performed, to identify and quantify energy, material used and wastes released to the environment. In this report, data collections of raw materials, manufacturing processes, and end-of-life of products were accumulated step by step based on self-developed checklists. The manufacturing process is complex and composed of several unit operations, a product inventory cannot be optimally determined by simple measures. Therefore, this study is based specifically on its own system boundaries and hypotheses. The interpretation of the environmental impact was displayed, by the used of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) software tool, in terms of impact categories such as greenhouse effect, acidification, eutrophication etc., thus environmental conclusions can then be drawn from the study.One of the main obstacles of d
irecting process design/optimization with LCA is the disconnect between the two despite significant overlapping of information needed for both analyses. To bridge this gap, an integrated system with a process modelling environment, an LCA model, an uncertainty analysis tool, and chemical databases are proposed. The process modelling environment allows easy accumulation of process models that can be used across the academia and the industry. A case study of the chamber cleaning process using existing commercial software illustrated the system. The global warming potentials (GWP) induced by different etch rate requirements were compared. The physical and chemical databases that are part of the commercial program Aspen Plus (R) ease the data collection effort in process modelling. These databases and the LCA database need to be connected by sharing the same primary key.Although many methodologies and tools for green product design have already been developed, how to combine different tools effectively have not been discussed enough. There exist two characteristic tools for green design support; one is LCA (Life Cycle Assessment), and the other is QFDE (Quality Function Deployment for Environment) developed by the authors. While LCA is quantitative and applicable in a later stage of design, QFDE is semi quantitative and applicable at an earlier stage. This paper analyzes how designers obtain different types of implications from LCA and QFDE through case studies on an identical product, a pump. As a result from the analysis, outputs from QFDE were proved to imply the importance factors of components considering their functional roles from the environmental viewpoint, which mean functionalities decreasing environmental impacts. This type of implication supports designers effectively but cannot be obtained by the outputs only from LCA. On the other hand, the results produced by LCA are indispensable for obtaining quantitative and objective environmental performance of a product.Pervasive Computing stands for the embedding of microelectronics into everyday's objects, wireless networking and ubiquitous computing. Components for Pervasive Computing will be equipped with sensors, enabling them to collect data from their environment without the user's active intervention or even consciousness. The paper sheds light on the impacts of Pervasive Computing on human environment and health from various perspectives: technology assessment [1], comparative life cycle assessment [2] and modelling of the future environmental impact [3]. With regard to the environment special attention is drawn to arising issues for waste policy, the importance of infrastructure and an assessment of rebound effects. The main focus of the impacts on health is on the exposition to non-ionizing radiation and stress. The presentation will conclude with an outlook and policy recommendations from the perspective of the precautionary principle.At Philips Electronics simple indicators (e.g., product weight, weight of hazardous substances and energy use) and a screening life cycle assessment (LCA) with the Eco Indicator method are used for environmental product assessment. Until 2003 the Eco Indicator 95 method was used. Consecutively, the Eco Indicator 99 method is used for impact assessment. In this paper the consequences for the environmental assessment of Philips products by this tr
ansition to the new modified Eco Indicator 99 impact assessment method will be discussed. In general, analysis with both methods leads to similar conclusions on the environmental impact of products. Only in case a product contains precious metals, the results of both methods may be different. This is due to high resource depletion values for these metals.Life-Cycle Analysis is considered an important tool, which is able to incorporate environmental considerations into decision-making. It is used for the development of strategies, which should lead to a lesser overall environmental impact. These conventional environmental assessment calculations focus on the use of annualized average produced emissions. This paper shows an improved determination of environmental impacts for a crucial process in the end-of-life chain of electronic products: a copper smelter, as part of an integrated metals smelter and refinery. This paper proposes a statistically based LCA evaluation comprising of four steps (Plant Measurements/Data Reconciliation/Model Validation and LCA Statistics). This streamlined approach is necessary to determine whether one can reliably propose strategies to minimize the environmental impact. It is vital to incorporate an operational and in this case a metallurgical perspective. LCA predictions, without this perspective, statistical basis and standard deviations will prove to be inaccurate and should not serve as a basis to state an optimization strategy, because they fail to incorporate the effects of a changing feed strategy, or changing consumer goods properties, on the process (e.g. changing split factors) and the recycling chain.This paper describes a Life Cycle Assessment study of 3(rd) Generation mobile phone: Nokia 7600. The study covers the life cycle stages of raw materials and production up to factory gate, product use phase, and transport steps for the handset, charger and Li-ion battery. Product sales packaging and of end-of-life phase was excluded from this study. Results show that in relation to earlier studies of GSM terminals, energy used in manufacture of components is still a dominant area of the life cycle, although data gaps exist for several key components. The energy consumed in the use phase is decreasing, despite increased product functionality. This is partly due to more efficient no-load power consumption of the charger. Comparison is made to results of similar publicly available studies.Printed circuit boards (PCB) are the basic material for almost any kind of electronics. Unfortunately, currently existing thermosetting PCB in most cases require toxic flame retardants and are not mechanically recyclable. On the other hand, however, the legislative environment for ICT application is getting more and more dynamic since the EU directives concerning Waste from Electric and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) have been adopted. Thus, within a joint research project of the Oko-Institut, other research establishments and various industrial partners funded by the German Federal Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF) PCB based on foamed high temperature thermoplastics (HTT) are developed. The project aims to present a flexible concept for a broad spectrum of appliances. By developing different fully functional specimen applications this objective has been pr
oved. Compared to conventional concepts the major ecological advantage of the used high-temperature thermoplastics is that no flame retardant systems are needed. Additionally, due to the foaming process material and energy flows are reduced already during production. Furthermore, post-consumer thermoplastic PCB can be recycled on a high level. In order to evaluate the ecological performance of the new concept a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study was carried out. According to this study, HTT boards cause only half of the environmental burden when compared with conventional PCB like FR-4 boards. Beyond those ecological advantages the new materials endue technological benefits as well. Examples are the low weight, high use temperatures and excellent HF properties, which are almost as good as PCB based on PTFE. Besides that, the base material of HTT boards can be produced continuously and due to the used material the board could be post-formed after its processing. All these features open up new potentials for cost saving. In summary, HTT boards incorporate ecological, technological as well as economical benefits and thus are designed to be an ideal base material for future electronics.The increasing semiconductor functionality relies on more complex integrated circuits with higher component densities. Miniaturisation and its implications on resource consumption in semiconductor facilities have been fairly well explored in a number of life cycle assessment (LCA) studies, which show that, in spite of the growing product complexity, resource intensities per product unit are gradually falling. However, increasingly advanced circuits demand high-purity materials, but the impacts of these trends on resource intensities in upstream manufacturing stages remain unknown. The growing use of high-grade materials may contribute to shifting the centre of manufacturing-related environmental impacts from circuit fabrication to raw material production stages. Unfortunately, cannot be seen in the existing LCA studies, which due to the lack of data are not able to quantify upstream and provide an incomplete picture of semiconductor environmental aspects. The paper illustrates the problem discussing energy demands for manufacturing ultra-pure wet chemicals. The paper examines the feasibility of using material price as a proxy for production energy intensity and proposes a framework for collecting chemical manufacturing related energy data. The authors suggest that by mapping the patterns of chemical usage and focusing on high-grade materials consumed in large volumes it is possible to reduce data collection efforts and improve the existing energy estimates.The environmental information of the whole life cycle of a product is needed in design for environment (DfE). Therefore, LCA results are possible starting points for the ME, but the results need to be summarized for a company staff in ME education. The reliability of results must be taken into consideration, particularly when going into the details of a product. Those issues were examined when the manufacturing phase of the product of Vaisala company was assessed using two different LCA software tools and inventory databases. Differences between the methods and data had an influence on differences of the results. Comparing of those differences helped to show the main reliability issues of LCA for the staff. It
 was found out that as a background the LCA results were sufficient, whereas LCA based design rules needed further simplification of the results. In that connection, reliability issues and increased subjectivity must be emphasized.The major trends in Printed Wiring Board (PWB) development have focused on reducing the size and increasing the capacity of the PWB. These tendencies have led to technologies such as multi-layer, surface mounting, fine pitch, micro via or embedded components. Embedded components became almost state-of-the-art in mounted PWB design. An assumed step in the near future will be the technology shift from embedded components to embedded systems. This step into further miniaturisation is supposed to be environmentally friendly, but evidences are neither public available nor based on generally proofed facts. Some ecologically contradictory developments need an environmental roadmap to ensure sustainable products in a highly innovative field. It is necessary to investigate strengths and weak points of those developments in order to allow direct influence at the right aspects. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an appropriate measure to show environmental effects in a quantified manner. The results from the ecological assessment lead into an environmental roadmap of miniaturisation in electronics industry. Against the background of the proposal for an EuP directive, the project also serves as an exemplary case study to demonstrate how enterprises can show EuP compliance. It will start soon and will be co-ordinated by PE Europe as a multi client study with OEMs and participants from the supply chain.For future electronics applications e.g. smart cards will be more frequently used, especially in the developing countries. This calls for attention which environmental load possible production methods brings about, as the production phase usually dominates the environmental load for relatively short-lived consumer electronics. At Chalmers University of Technology a novel manufacturing process using embedded chip technology has been developed as alternative to wire bonding and flip chip connection technologies. Using epoxy based conductive adhesive to fix it a silicon chip is embedded in a liquid crystal polymer (LCP) substrate and the copper deposition is done using plating technology. This paper focuses on the manufacturing life cycle phase of a functional module. The decision on inclusion or exclusion of unit processes within the process flow diagram is discussed, and based on earlier work the upstream process contribution was estimated. The methods used for compiling the life cycle and to compare different processes within the system boundaries were the ProTox screening approach developed by Fraunhofer IZM and process-based cradle-to-gate-Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Our suggestion for preferable environmental assessment methods is a two-step approach where first ProTox is used and then the life-cycle approach. The indications for the embedded technology are that shorter curing time for epoxy glue and recycling of hazardous waste arising from electro-less copper plating, would help overall environmental performance. As problematic process materials were identified, the process toxicity would decrease if wet bench processes could be avoided or at least optimised.This paper presents a concurrent and hierarchical approach to life c
ycle analysis and design of building energy system. The integrated design of building envelope and energy conversion as well as utilization system are emphasized. To support data sharing, the STEP-based data model for building and entity-reiationship database are discussed which can facilitate data sharing between design tools. Finally.. a simple case study is given to demonstrate the use of and benefit of the method.In this paper are presented the most relevant results of a comparative Life Cycle Assessment of the Ebro River Water Transfer considered in the Spanish National Hydrologic Plan, versus the production by desalination of the same amount of diverted water (1050 hm(3)/year). The most common commercial desalination technologies used worldwide (Multi-Stage Flash, MSF; Multi-Effect Evaporation, MED; and Reverse Osmosis, RO) have been considered, in order to obtain a broad outlook as well as to establish a first approach as much as global, rigorous and objective as possible, about the less aggressive water production technology for the environment. The software SimaPro 5.0, developed by Dutch PRe Consultants, has been used as the analysis tool in the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), and three different evaluation methods have been applied: CML 2 baseline 2000, Eco-Points 97 and Eco-Indicator 99.While environmental issues are playing more and more important role in decision making of energy sector, it is very imperative to assess the environmental impacts exactly for the various energy resources utilization. Since all energy resources lead to some environmental impact and biosphere has buffering capacity for certain pollution material, it is suggested that a sustainable development can be achieved by controlling the total pollutants load down to the corresponding natural purification degree. In this paper, Pollution exergy was defined for a quantitative potential assessment of environmental impacts. As a measure of the departure state of a system from that of environment, the tic between exergy and environment makes exergy as an appropriate measure for environmental impacts of waste emissions such as heat, chemical material and so oil. However, the quantitative relation between exergy and environmental impacts hasn't come into focus so far. This paper defined Pollution exergy to assess environmental impacts, which fully considered the impacts of dissipated rates, reference concentration as well as its lifetime in the atmosphere of different forms exergy. It followed that waste emission won't cause large harm under the buffering capacity. When the buffering capacity was exceed; the environmental harm grows over time as pollutant accumulates in the biosphere, which is consistent with Pollutant exergy. In addition, the potential environmental impacts of the constant emission are dependent upon the reference concentration and atmospheric lifetime of the pollutant. Furthermore, an environmental impacts assessment model integrated with life cycle analysis has been developed, and Pollution exergy was performed for two power plants. The results are compared to LCA. It followed that Pollution exergy a reliable methodology for the assessment of environmental impacts, when Pollution exergy integrated with life cycle analysis, current and potential environmental impact of lifetime waste emission for various industry possess was obtain, which will be 
an important toot for environmental-benign waste emission control, policy decision-making, and assessment of sustainability.An assessment is made of the atmospheric emissions from the life cycle of fuel ethanol coupled with the cogeneration of electricity from sugarcane in Brazil. The total exergetic loss from atmospheric emission substances produced by the life cycle of fuel ethanol is 10.0 x 10(6) KJ/ton of C2H5OH. Compared with the chemical exergy of 1 ton of ethanol (calculated as 34.56 x 10(6) kJ), the exergy loss from the life cycle's atmospheric emission represents 29% of the product's exergy. The activity that most contributes to atmospheric emission exergy losses is the harvesting of sugarcane through the emitted substance CO. Suggestions for improved environmental quality and greater efficiency of the life cycle of fuel alcohol with cogenerated energy are: sugarcane should be harvested without prior burning; alternative fuels should be used in the transportation vehicles instead of fossil fuel, and the transportation of products and input should be logistically optimized.Increased use of biofuels for transport is emerging as an important policy strategy to substitute petroleum-based fuels. However, the extent to which biofuel can displace fossil fuels and net emissions of CO depends on the efficiency with which it can be produced. To demonstrate that biofuel has a positive energy balance - i.e. more energy is contained in than is used in the production - a life cycle approach must be employed, allowing quantification of the renewability of biofuel delivered to consumers. A novel indicator is proposed - the energy renewability efficiency - aiming at characterizing the renewability of (bio)energy sources. ERE measures the fraction of final fuel energy obtained from renewable sources. The LCEA for bioethanol in France has been investigated. Assessing the (fossil and non-fossil) energy used throughout the life cycle and calculating the renewability of two alternative bioethanol product systems are important goals. Physical and economic data was collected and a systemic description of the bioethanol chains has been implemented. Inventory results - calculated using four different allocation approaches and ignoring co-product credits - are analyzed in order to understand the effect of allocation in the overall energy efficiency and renewability of bioethanol. Sensitivity analysis shows that the choice of the allocation procedure has a major influence on the results. In fact, ERE values for ethanol can vary more than 50%, depending on the allocation used. Finally, we conclude that, in general, ethanol produced from sugar beet or wheat in France is clearly favorable in primary energy terms. In particular, a maximum ERE value of 55% was obtained for wheat based ethanol (mass allocation), meaning that 55% of the biofuel energy content is indeed renewable energy.Aim of this paper is to analyze the performance of an innovative high efficiency steam power plant by means of two "life cycle approach" methodologies, the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and the "Extended Exergy Analysis" (EEA). The plant object of the analysis is a hydrogen-fed steam power plant in which the H2 is produced by a "zero CO2 emission" coal gasification process (the ZECOTECH (c) cycle). The CO, capture system is a standard humid-CaO absorbing process and produces CaCO3 as 
a by-product, which is then regenerated to CaO releasing the CO, for a downstream mineral sequestration process. The steam power plant is based on an innovative combined-cycle process: the hydrogen is used as a fuel to produce high-temperature, medium-pressure steam hat powers the steam turbine in the "topper" section, whose exhaust is used in a heat recovery boiler to feed a traditional steam power plant. The environmental performance of the ZECOTECH (c) cycle is assessed by comparison with four different processes: power plant fed by H2 from natural gas steam reforming, two conventional coal- and natural gas power plants and a wind power plant.in this paper the modernisation of the existing district heating system and the maintenance of the network were investigated by evaluating the influence of renovation of end users and the depreciation of pipes. The criterion of "twofold benefit" was applied for the calculation of the optimal variant of the end user renovation, the graph theory was used for optimisation of pipe diameters and the method of life cycle analysis was applied for estimation of the periodicity of the network maintenance works.A composite software model for the comparative life-cycle assessment (LCA) of 10 different fuel options for the Philippine automotive transport sector was developed. It is based on the GREET fuel-cycle inventory model developed by the Argonne National Laboratory for the United States Department of Energy. GREET 1.5a is linked to an impact assessment submodel using the Danish environmental design of industrial products (EDIP) method. This combined inventory-impact assessment model is enhanced further with possibilistic uncertainty propagation (PUP) and possibilistic compromise programming (PCP) features that allow the 10 alternatives to be ranked in the presence of multiple criteria and uncertain data. Sensitivity and scenario analysis can also be performed within the composite model. Some current and anticipated Philippine conditions, including electricity generation mix, are incorporated in the prototype's built-in database. The software model, designated as POLCAGE 1.0 (possibilistic LCA using GREET and EDIP), is coded in Microsoft Excel and Visual Basic. The model's capabilities and features are demonstrated using a case study based on its default scenario. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Since 1970's, the environmental protection movement has challenged industries to increase their investment in Environmentally Conscious Manufacturing (ECM) techniques and management tools. Social considerations for global citizens and their descendants also motivated the examination on the complex issues of sustainable development beyond the immediate economic impact. Consequently, industrial enterprises have started to understand sustainable development in considering the Triple Bottom Line (TBL): economic prosperity, environmental quality and social justice. For the management, however, a lack of systematic ECM methodologies hinders their effort in planning, evaluating, reporting and auditing of sustainability. To address this critical need, this research develops a framework of a sustainable management system by incorporating a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of industrial operations with the TBL mechanism. A TBL metric system with seven sets of indices for the TBL elements and their complex relations is 
identified for the comprehensive evaluation of a company's sustainability performance. Utilities of the TBL indices are estimated to represent the views of various stakeholders, including the company, investors, employees and the society at large. Costs of these indices are also captured to reflect the company's effort in meeting the utilities. An optimization model is formulated to maximize the economic, environmental and social benefits by the company's effort in developing sustainable strategies. To promote environmental and social consciousness, the methodology can significantly facilitate management decisions by its capabilities of including "non-business" values and external costs that the company has not contemplated before.Nearly all life cycle assessment tools available today are high priced, comprehensive and quantitative models requiring a significant amount of data collection and data input. In addition, most of the available software packages require a great deal of training time to learn how to operate the model software. Even after this time investment, results are not guaranteed because of the number of estimations and assumptions often necessary to run the model. As a result, product development, design teams and enviromnental specialists need a simplified tool that will allow for the qualitative evaluation and "screening" of various design options. This paper presents the development and design of a generic, qualitative life cycle screening model and demonstrates its applicability and ease of use. The model uses qualitative environmental, health and safety factors, based on site or product-specific issues, to sensitize the overall results for a given set of conditions. The paper also evaluates the impact of different population input ranking values on model output. The final analysis is based on site or product-specific variables. The user can then evaluate various design changes and the apparent impact or improvement on the environment, health and safety, compliance cost and overall corporate liability. Major input parameters can be varied, and factors such as materials use, pollution prevention, waste minimization, worker safety, product life, environmental impacts, return of investment, and recycle are evaluated. The flexibility of the model format will be discussed in order to demonstrate the applicability and usefulness within nearly any industry sector. Finally, an example using audience input value scores will be compared to other population input results.In several countries, due to the increasing cost and shortage of water, textile finishing industries are looking for non conventional water resources. The use of reclaimed wastewater appears a technically feasible solution and is gaining a growing consensus. A European Union research project (TOWEF0, Towards effluent zero) with the aim of elaborating a multicriteria integrated and coherent methodology to support the implementation of sustainable water reuse in textile finishing processes has been recently concluded. In order to achieve an optimal compromise between minimization of environmental impacts of the production processes and maximum recovery of resources, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology has been applied to selected textile products manufactured within Belgian and Italian textile finishing companies. The study identified the key environmental issu
es within the finishing processes of a variety of natural (cotton, silk) and man-made (polyester, acetate, viscose) fibers and fabrics and analyzed alternative water reuse scenarios. Significant margins exist for impressive reductions in water consumption with almost no additional environmental impact adopting in situ membrane filtration technology. In this paper the methodological approach and the results of the LCA analyses applied to a flax-polyester product are presented and discussed.eLCA is a European Commission financed project aimed at realising "On line green tools and services for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs)". Knowledge and use of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) by SMEs are strategic to introduce the Integrated Product Policy (IPP) in Europe, but methodology simplification is needed. LCA requires a large amount of validated general and sector specific data. Since their availability and cost can be insuperable barriers for SMEs, pre-elaborated data/meta-data, use of standards and low cost solutions are required. Within the framework of the eLCA project an LCA software - eVerdEE - based on a simplified methodology and specialised for SMEs has been developed. eVerdEE is a web-based tool with some innovative features. Its main feature is the adaptation of ISO 14040 requirements to offer easy-to-handle functions with solid scientific bases. Complex methodological problems, such as the system boundaries definition, the data quality estimation and documentation, the choice of impact categories, are simplified according to the SMEs' needs. Predefined "Goal and Scope definition" and "Inventory" forms, a user-friendly and well structured procedure are time and cost-effective. The tool is supported by a database containing pre-elaborated environmental indicators of substances and processes for different impact categories. The impact assessment is calculated automatically by using the user's input and the database values. The results have different levels of interpretation in order to identify the life cycle critical points and the improvement options. The use of a target plot allows the direct comparison of different design alternatives.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was used, to.,assess the environmental impacts of field production of fibre hemp and seven other crops in France. The production of 1 ha of hemp yielded a eutrophication potential of 20.5 kg PO4-equivalents, a global warn-ling potential,of 2330 kg CO2-equivalents, an acidification potential of 9.8 kg SO2-equivalents, a terrestrial ecotoxicity potential of,2 3 kg, 1, A-dichlorobenzene-equivalents, an energy use of 11.4 GJ, and a land use of 1.02 ha.year. A comparison of hemp (low impacts), wheat (intermediate impacts) and sugar beet (high impacts) revealed that the crops were similar for the relative contributions of emitted substances and resources used to impacts, and for the relative contribution of processes to impacts. A reduction of the impacts of hemp production should focus on eutrophication, and consider the reduction of climate change, acidification and energy use as secondary objectives. Given this objective, the overall environmental effect of the substitution of mineral fertiliser by pig slurry is negative. The introduction of reduced tillage is of interest, as it decreases energy use, acidification and climate change. Measures leading. to a reduction in NOS
 leaching are highly interesting, as they strongly decrease euttophication Implications for hemp breeding are discussed.Fuel cells are considered to be ultra-clean energy conversion systems because the pollutants emitted during their operating time are very low in concentration. For this reason, fuel cells can represent the answer to several environmental issues. What is important, however, is to carefully evaluate it the problem is really being solved, or just shifted. In other words, it is vital to consider not only the operating life, but also the pollution related to the construction, the disposal, the conversion of primary fuel into hydrogen and all the other related operations and systems. The present study is the first step for evaluating the environmental impact related to the whole life cycle of a fuel cell system. In this paper, in tact, the authors, making use of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach, analyze the impact associated with a Molten Carbonate Fuel Cell Stack. Since the MCFC construction can be considered a novel practice, this study can provide a significant indication for pollution reduction in the stack construction phase.A traditional approach used to evaluate clean-up technologies, in which only plant discharges are considered, is contrasted with a sustainability assessment. The sustainability of any technology can be assessed from three complementary points of view: economic, environmental and social. As such, this paper presents a comprehensive scheme that can be applied to any process, product or technology. In addition, the use of chemical engineering tools such as process design, process modelling and simulation represent a baseline for the sustainability assessment of technologies, as presented in a case study. The optimal granular activated carbon adsorption process design is used as a model system to demonstrate the advantages of sustainability approaches over traditional approaches. A mathematical model that describes the performance of the process at various design options was developed. This model includes cost equations that were used to estimate the total cost of each alternative under different plant designs and two waste scenarios ( a benzene and a 1,2-dichloroethane discharge). Life Cycle Assessment tools were applied to generate an inventory of emissions and the impact assessment measured as Photochemical Ozone Creation (POC) and Global Warming Potential (GWP). The model examined trade-offs between pollutants discharged into the atmosphere and pollution associated with the adoption and operation of the technology. One of the main results from the technology assessment is that the environmental impact, measured in terms of GWP proved to be higher for the technology operation than for the untreated waste streams themselves, and therefore suggested that the streams should not be treated. However, the social impact evaluation ( measured as risk assessment) conducted as part of this work proved that it was morally and legally mandatory to treat them due to the adverse effects on human health that they may represent. As such, a triple bottom line sustainability assessment was demonstrated to be one of the most important frameworks for decision making. The evaluation scheme presented in this work can also be applied to other areas such as the identification of the most sustainable process design and
 different green chemistry route alternatives.In this paper, we present a process design methodology for identifying opportunities where step-change improvements in both process economics and environmental impact can be achieved. In particular, the use of computer aided molecular design techniques is proposed as a method for identifying alternative processing materials that can lead to improved designs. Fundamental to the overall approach is the formulation of environmental performance objectives to drive the process design decisions. For this task, a recently developed method of damage modelling for life cycle impact assessment is used to derive an explicit environmental performance metric. Trying to give consideration to not only the traditional financial objectives, but also the multiple environmental concerns, inevitably results in the process design task being formulated as a multi-criteria decision-making process. Using multi-objective optimization techniques, a set of alternative trade-off designs is established that reflect the conflict between the economic and environmental concerns. Accepting that this inherent conflict exists, whereby one objective can not be improved without sacrificing another, the next task is to modify the process through the use of alternative materials in search of superior designs. Focussing specifically on liquid - liquid extraction operations, extensions to our previously developed methodology for designing solvents that are both environmentally benign and cost effective are presented as part of the overall methodology.Suitable environmental assessment tools are needed for the development of sustainable chemical products and processes. In this paper, three methods for the environmental assessment of chemicals with different focus, fields of application, and data requirements are presented. The first method aims to identify potential environmental, health and safety hazards in the early phases of chemical process design. The second approach is to calculate screening indicators for unwanted environmental exposure to chemicals in terms of persistence and spatial range. The third approach is to perform a full life-cycle assessment. The differences between the methods are discussed, first, on a theoretical basis and then within a case study of 13 solvents. The results of all three methods indicate that the use of chlorinated solvents should be avoided, while solvents such as methanol, isopropanol, toluene and xylene are less problematic. Moreover, there are results that are unique to each method: in addition to the chlorinated solvents, nitrobenzene has a potential for long-lasting and widespread exposure; concerning environmental, health and safety aspects, care should be taken with respect to formaldehyde, benzene, and acetic acid; according to the life-cycle assessment, energy use makes up for a large fraction of the impact for solvents such as aniline. In the case study, the three methods provide consistent results both in the overall environmental assessment of the chemicals and with regard to single aspects such as degradability or toxicity. Since not all aspects are considered in all methods, the methods also provide complementary results.Life cycle analysis of cotton towels by Richard Blackburn and John Payne has ascertained the impact of domestic laundering on the life cycle of cotton articles. It 
was found that any process or treatment that could reduce the washing frequency of that product would be likely to effect a significant reduction in energy, water and chemical consumption over a given time for that product, hence providing a greener life cycle for the product; one recommendation to achieve this, by reducing washing frequency, is through the use of anti-microbial finishes such as poly(hexamethylenebiguanide).Strategies and achievements in the Asian steel industry to construct industrial ecological chain are reviewed largely in the case of Japan, Korea and China. Emphasis is placed on the development of resource circulatory system for the minimisation of various wastes and emissions of green house gases (GHG), toxic gases and polluting particulates. The minimisation includes: 1. Rationalisation of iron and steelmaking processes: 2. Implementation of available relevant measures/technologies 3. Life cycle assessment in designing steel from semis to assembled products; 4. Reduction, reuse and recycling of materials and energies: and 5. Utilisation of core competence technologies to process domestic and industrial wastes. In view of global nature of the above wastes- and emission-issues, inter-industrial linkage and international cooperation across the borders in the Asian countries have become more important. Inter-industrial linkage definitely serves to cut back the wastes and emissions. Examples of such linkage and factors influencing the sustainability of the linkage are described with expectation for further development of the linkage. Importance of international cooperation cannot be overstressed under the circumstances where steel production in China exceeded 220 Mt and world production exceeded 945 Mt in 2003 and is still increasing. Practical measures are discussed to enhance the linkage and cooperation for effectively promoting the reduction, reuse and recycling, including implications for the nonferrous industry.Titanium has the potential to become the third wave of light metals used in high volume applications, following on from aluminium and magnesium. These light metals have functional attributes that can meet many of the goals needed for society's transition to sustainable development. CSIRO has initiated a Light Metals Flagship to focus additional R&D efforts in support of the light metals industry. The vision of the Light Metal Flagship is for Australia to lead the Light Metals Age by reducing the costs and environmental impacts through innovative technologies for these metals. Life cycle principles will be used to identify novel technology pathways for metal production and product manufacture that are more energy efficient, less capital intensive and incorporating eco-efficient material flow chains. Under the auspices of the Light Metal Flagship, a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of titanium metal production was carried out with mineral sands mining of ilmenite as the starting point. Upgrading of the ilmenite to synthetic rutile by the Becher process and titanium metal production by the conventional Kroll process were the processing routes considered. Two alternative processes for titanium metal production, the FFC Cambridge process involving direct electrochemical deoxygenation of titanium dioxide, and a plasma process for producing titanium powder from titanium tetrachloride were also examined using LCA methodol
ogy and compared to the Kroll process. The environmental impacts included in the LCA were greenhouse gas emissions (Global Warming Potential, GWP) and acid rain gas emissions (Acidification Potential, AP). The Gross Energy Requirement (GER) of each process was also determined. These results for titanium, along with those from previous LCA studies by CSIRO on aluminium, magnesium, steel and stainless steel production, were used to show that despite the relatively large amounts of primary energy required for the production of these light metals, their special properties (eg corrosion resistance, strength and light weight) mean that these metals offer potential GER and GWP reductions compared to other competing materials in a number of applications, when viewed on a life cycle basis. Two applications considered in the paper are the lightweighting of motor vehicles and chemical plant equipment manufacture.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is increasingly being used as a decision-support tool within mining and minerals processing and metals production, However, a number of initiatives have highlighted the current limitations of LCA to accurately reflect the environmental performance of minerals and metals. These programs include: the Mining, Minerals and Sustainable development project (Stewart, 200 1); the United Nations Environment Programmme/Society for Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (UNEP/SETAC) workshop on LCA and metals (NRCan, 2002); the UNEP SETAC Life Cycle Initiative: and the review of the existing ISO 14 040 set of environmental management standards. Together, these initiatives highlighted concerns relating to the ability of LCA to engage with and support metals recycling, to adequately reflect the impacts associated with products from a multi-product orebody, the ability to adequately reflect the toxicity potential of metals in the natural environment and the fact that resource depletion focuses on mining (and not consumption) as the depleting activity in the life cycle of a metal. Additional impact categories to be included in LCA were also suggested. In this paper we demonstrate how existing initiatives are addressing LCA limitations. Finally we present the state of the art in Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) for two impact categories: resource depletion; and impacted land footprint for solid wastes.This paper presents a method to calculate economic and ecological indicators to evaluate waste regarding material recycling. As material recycling is still a preferred option for closing the loop of electric and electronic equipment (EEE), it is important to have an indicator that offers the feasibility to evaluate the benefits and burdens of different recycling routes according to the contained materials and elements. Depending on the description of the economic and ecological potential of waste, the requirements and calculation method will be discussed.Aim, Scope and Background. Acquisition and analysis of huge amounts of data still pose a challenge, with few options available for solutions and support. Life cycle assessment (LCA) experts face such problems on a daily basis. However, data do not become useful until some of the information they carry is extracted , and most important, represented in a way humans can both recognize efficiently and understand and interpret as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, information represe
ntation techniques as used in this field are still based on traditional low-dimensional information spaces, featuring only a few basic choices to represent life cycle (LC) related data. We must part from those traditional techniques and shift to visual representations that are easier for us to understand due to the human capability for detecting spatial structures and shapes represented in different colors and textures. Then all the advantages of modern, advanced information visualization can be applied and exploited. Main Features. With the introduction of a new glyph-based information representation and visualization approach to LCA, current issues of representing LC-related information efficiently at a glance are being tackled. These new techniques support reduction of information load by providing tools to select and summarize data, assist in making explicit and transparent data feature propagation, and provide a means of representing data errors and uncertainty. In this approach the human perceptual capability for easily and quickly recognizing and understanding graphical objects in different colors and textures is exploited for the design and application of highly structured and advanced forms of multi-dimensional information representation. Results. Now in the example presented in this paper, OM-glyphs were used to represent LCA-related information for an industrial product and its compiled life cycle inventory under conditions normal for LCA. To demonstrate the application and benefits of the approach introduced, several different visualization scenarios were computed and presented. These were illustrated with a selection of generated glyph-based displays containing spherical glyph clusters for environmental items such as air pollutants and water pollutants, and inventory glyph matrices related to components and to LC phases. Where appropriate, to further aid understanding and clarity, displays were additionally shown with various orientations and in enlarged form. This is a functional feature of interactive 3D OM-glyph based information visualization that can be used in practice to efficiently navigate through displays while at the same time adjusting rendered scenes to the needs of the user at any given time. Due to the huge amount of data acquired and compiled, only a small fraction of the glyph-based displays could be shown, and, in consequence, only a fraction of the data properties, patterns and features available could be discussed in detail. However, it is believed that the basic principles and methods of this approach, as shown in a real application, could be clearly conveyed, and, most important, that the benefits and potential could be displayed in a convincing manner. This technology will support a marked increase in efficiency, speed and quality in LC information analysis. Conclusions. This paper concludes our short series on efficient information visualization in LCA. A new approach to efficient information visualization has been introduced, together with its basic principles. This background was enriched with discussions on and further insights into technical details of the approach and the framework developed. The first practical examples were provided in the previous paper, demonstrating the mapping of LCA-related data and their contexts to glyph parameters. In this paper the application of the approach was presen
ted using data for an actual industrial product. During the discussions, and with the various glyph-based displays shown, it could be convincingly demonstrated that all data features, trends, patterns, relationships, and data imperfections detected and examined, and sometimes traced, could be quickly and efficiently recognized in a short time. Even basic data features, such as small gaps in the data propagation of related values, could be easily seen using OM-glyphs. In the case of traditional data representation, using for example LCI tables, this would require the identification and comparison of several thousand numerical entries. As is the case with all new technology, however, it is still difficult to obtain the interest of the experts, and to convince them that such new ideas will eventually change the face of industry. Outlook. A new, advanced and efficient information representation and visualization approach has been introduced to the LCA community. Hopefully, through this small series of papers, some interest will have been generated in the field of advanced information visualization. For the first time this area has been related to LCA, and some seeds for interdisciplinary research may have been sown. Now it is up to individuals, the experts in the various fields related to those issues, to respond. The desired results will be stimulating discussions, an exchange of ideas, further initiated multilateral, interdisciplinary efforts, and improved collaboration between partners from academia and industry. At that point, efficient information visualization will finally have arrived at, and received, its deserved place within LCA.Background. Acidification is one of the important impact categories for life cycle impact assessment. Although its characterization has progressed during this decade through the employment of midpoint approaches, only limited studies of endpoint approaches have been performed. Objective. This study aimed at developing damage function of acidification for terrestrial ecosystems in Japan. Damage function expresses a quantitative relationship between the inventory and endpoint damage. Methods. The geographical boundary was limited in Japan both for emission and impact. In this study, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) (NO and NO2 collectively mean NOx), hydrogen chloride (HCl), and ammonia (NH3) were considered as major causative substances of acidification. Net primary production (NPP) of existing vegetation was adopted as an impact indicator of terrestrial ecosystems. The aluminum toxicity was adopted as the major factor of effect on terrestrial ecosystems due to acidification. The leachate concentration of monomeric inorganic aluminum ions was selected to express the plant toxicity of aluminum. Results and Discussion. The results of damage function gave utilizable factors both for a midpoint approach and an endpoint approach; Atmospheric Deposition Factor (ADF) and Damage Factor (DF) applicable to the former and the latter, respectively. The ADF indicates an increase of H+ deposition per unit area to an additional emission of causative substance. The additional emission corresponds to some alternatives in industry, not the baseline emission. The DF indicates the total NPP damage in all of Japan due to the additional emission of causative substances. The derived NPP damage is
 on the order of one millionth of the NPP itself. HCl and NH3 showed larger ADFs and DFs than that of SO2 and NOx. The reason was ascribed to the relatively large source-receptor relationships (SRR) of HCl and NH3. However, since the method applied to determine the SRR of HCl and NE, has larger uncertainties than that of SO2 and no attention is needed to handle the difference. Conclusion. The damage function easily defines the concrete NPP damage due to an additional emission. The impact indicator, NPP, also has an advantage in its mass unit that is directly summable through the entire impact categories. Expansion of endpoints, such as in aquatic ecosystems, material degradation, human health, and biodiversity aspects of terrestrial ecosystems, is an important subject for future work. Further, uncertain analyses for major parameters will provide helpful information on the reliability of damage function.Goal, Scope and Background. In the recently published (Dutch) Handbook on LCA, economic allocation is advised as baseline method for most allocation situations in a detailed LCA Although the Handbook on LCA aimed to provide a 'cookbook' with operational guidelines for conducting each step of an LCA, this was not completely achieved for the allocation step. The guidelines for allocation largely remained at the level of principles. This restricted elaboration of economic allocation may hamper application in practice. Therefore, this paper elaborates some examples applying economic allocation. Method. Two concepts are of particular importance when applying economic allocation: functional flow and multi-functional process. The definitions of these concepts are presented and discussed. The basic principle of economic allocation is that having determined the various functional flows of a multi-functional process, all other flows need to be allocated to these functional flows according to their shares in the total proceeds. Proceeds are based on prices and these are not always easy to determine for a process. A summary of possible solutions for different problems when determining prices is given. Results and Discussion. The examples presented focus on co-production and various recycling situations. All examples are hypothetical in order to avoid discussions on the data. The examples show that the prices of the functional flows determine the allocation results. It is of importance to have correct information on the relative prices of the functional flows at stake, especially whether they are negative or positive. Learning from these examples, we establish a decision tree for economic allocation. The decision tree is meant for identifying and handling multi-functionality situations starting from a defined (product) system. This decision tree is with minor adaptations also applicable to other allocation methods and has a more general value than for the economic allocation method only. Conclusions and perspective. The examples have helped us to establish a decision tree for handling the multi-functionality problem by economic allocation. The examples can be broadened to other materials and allocation situations. We would encourage others to provide other examples and experiences as we expect that these will help to further improve and refine the guidelines and decision tree for economic allocation in future.Aim, Scope, and Background. Studies to evalu
ate the energy and emission impacts of vehicle/fuel systems have to address allocation of the energy use and emissions associated with petroleum refineries to various petroleum products because refineries produce multiple products. The allocation is needed in evaluating energy and emission effects of individual transportation fuels. Allocation methods used so far for petroleum-based fuels (e.g., gasoline, diesel, and liquefied petroleum gas [LPG]) are based primarily on mass, energy content, or market value shares of individual fuels from a given refinery. The aggregate approach at the refinery level is unable to account for the energy use and emission differences associated with producing individual fuels at the next sub-level: individual refining processes within a refinery. The approach ignores the fact that different refinery products go through different processes within a refinery. Allocation at the subprocess level (i.e., the refining process level) instead of at the aggregate process level (i.e., the refinery level) is advocated by the International Standard Organization. In this study, we seek a means of allocating total refinery energy use among various refinery products at the level of individual refinery processes. Main Features. We present a petroleum refinery-process based approach to allocating energy use in a petroleum refinery to petroleum refinery products according to mass, energy content, and market value share of final and intermediate petroleum products as they flow through refining processes within a refinery. The approach is based on energy and mass balance among refining processes within a petroleum refinery. By using published energy and mass balance data for a simplified U.S. refinery, we developed a methodology and used it to allocate total energy use within a refinery to various petroleum products. The approach accounts for energy use during individual refining processes by tracking product stream mass and energy use within a refinery. The energy use associated with an individual refining process is then distributed to product streams by using the mass, energy content, or market value share of each product stream as the weighting factors. Results. The results from this study reveal that product-specific energy use based on the refinery process-level allocation differs considerably from that based on the refinery-level allocation. We calculated well-to-pump total energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for gasoline, diesel, LPG, and naphtha with the refinery process-based allocation approach. For gasoline, the efficiency estimated from the refinery-level allocation underestimates gasoline energy use, relative to the process-level-based gasoline efficiency. For diesel fuel, the well-to- pump energy use for the process-level allocations with the mass- and energy-content-based weighting factors is smaller than that predicted with the refinery-level allocations. However, the process-level allocation with the market-value-based weighting factors has results very close to those obtained by using the refinery-level allocations. For LPG, the refinery-level allocation significantly overestimates LPG energy use. For naphtha, the refinery-level allocation overestimates naphtha energy use. The GHG emission patterns for each of the fuels are similar to those of energy use. Conclusions. We presented a refining-process-
level-based method that can be used to allocate energy use of individual refining processes to refinery products. The process-level-based method captures process-dependent characteristics of fuel production within a petroleum refinery. The method starts with the mass and energy flow chart of a refinery, tracks energy use by individual refining processes, and distributes energy use of a given refining process to products from the process. In allocating energy use to refinery products, the allocation method could rely on product mass, product energy contents, or product market values as weighting factors. While the mass- and energy-content based allocation methods provide an engineering perspective of energy allocation within a refinery, the market-value-based allocation method provides an economic perspective. The results from this study show that energy allocations at the aggregate refinery level and at the refining process level could make a difference in evaluating the energy use and emissions associated with individual petroleum products. Furthermore, for the refining-process-level allocation method, use of mass - energy content - or market value share-based weighting factors could lead to different results for diesel fuels, LPG, and naphtha. We suggest that, when possible, energy use allocations should be made at the lowest subprocess level - a confirmation of the recommendation by the International Standard Organization for life cycle analyses. Outlook. The allocation of energy use in petroleum refineries at the refining process level in this study follows the recommendation of ISO 14041 that allocations should be accomplished at the subprocess level when possible. We developed a method in this study that can be readily adapted for refineries in which process-level energy and mass balance data are available. The process-level allocation helps reveal some additional energy and emission burdens associated with certain refinery products that are otherwise overlooked with the refinery-level allocation. When possible, process-level allocation should be used in life-cycle analyses.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background. A new paradigm called System-In-a-Package (SIP) is expected to represent the wave of future microsystem packaging and integration. No environmental assessment has been made of manufacturing processes for SIP and the purpose of this paper is to assess the upstream environmental impact of the process used by Chalmers to manufacture an electronic product using the SIP technology. Objectives. This paper aims at an environmental assessment of a gallium arsenide (GaAs) Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit (MMIC) Switch Product based on a so-called SIP concept on a Liquid Crystalline Polymer (LCP) substrate. This study focuses on the identification of environmentally substantial upstream processes from cradle-to-gate for this product. Methods. This work is based on a life cycle inventory model that has been developed earlier by the authors, and this model is now applied to the system including the straight-line manufacturing processes in the facilities of the Microtechnology Centre (MC2) at Chalmers University of Technology and the manufacturing processes of raw materials in the upstream processes. A main scenario was built in the LCA software EcoLab corresponding to the linear process in MC2 and other manufacturing processes were 
identified in the upstream which were used to develop the upstream process tree. Results and Discussion. The spin coating of photoresistant material has the highest environmental impact within the system boundaries and the uncertainty of the results is estimated to be small. The exposure and development as well as deposition stages also give impacts, both for the copper and resistant material deposition. In the manufacturing processes inside MC2, the electricity consumption clearly dominates. The results predominantly reflect energy use, whereas toxicological aspects could not be reliably assessed due to lack of data and reliable methods, and therefore needs separate attention. Nevertheless, a toxicology assessment has been made with the Toxic Potential Indicator (TPI), which, compared to a telephone, showed a relatively large value for the switch. The toxic potential of the switch is higher per mass unit than a digital telephone. Conclusions. The previously developed LCA data collection model worked well for the SIP product. The electricity consumption for the deposition machine and the solvent consumption spin coating are the two most important hot spots. For greenhouse warming potential the acetone consumption in the spin coating steps is the most significant contributor, and the copper consumption in the copper deposition step dominates for abiotic resource depletion. Recommendations and Outlook. It is recommended that the machines in the MC2 process lab used to manufacture the SIP product are studied for a longer period of time as it would make the electricity consumption figures more accurate. More electronic packaging concepts, such as System-on-a-chip (SOC) and multichip modules (MCM), should be evaluated and compared to SIP.Insulation of buildings in order to save heating energy is an important technology for enabling sustainable development. This paper summarises the results of a comparative LCA study according to ISO 14040 standard series of HT stone wool, flax representing crop grown products and paper wool representing recycled products applied for roof insulation. As the three materials have vastly different lifecycles, yet fulfil the same function cycles, the methodology used should be of general interest. Part 1 consists of the project background, goal and scope definition, a detailed life cycle inventory analysis with sensitivity analysis, impact assessment and interpretation. The actual comparison of the results from the life cycle assessments of the three products, in which an attempt is made to answer the question of whether the biological products flax and paper wool are more environmentally preferable than the mineral product stone wool representing more traditional insulation materials, is discussed in Part 2.Background, Aims and Scope. Transport noise represents an environmental problem that is perceived by humans more directly than the usual chemical emissions or resource uses. In spite of this, traditional LCA applications still exclude noise - probably due to the unavailability of an appropriate assessment method. In order to fill the gap, this article presents a study proposing a new computational procedure for the determination of health impairment resulting from noise emissions of road vehicles. Main Features. The magnitude of health impairment due to noise is determined separately for each vehicle class (car
s, trucks,..) and is calculated per vehicle-kilometre driven during the day or at nighttime on the Swiss road network. This health impairment is expressed in cases of sleep disturbance or communication disturbance, and furthermore aggregated in DALY (Disability Adjusted Life Years) units representing the number, duration and severity of the health cases. The method is modelling the full cause-effect chain from the noise emissions of a single vehicle up to the health damage. As in some other modern concepts of environmental damage assessment, the analysis is subdivided into the four modules of fate analysis, exposure analysis, effect analysis and damage analysis. The fate analysis yielding the noise level increment due to an additional road transport over a given distance is conducted for transports with known or with unknown routing, the latter case being more important in LCA practice. The current number of persons subject to specific background levels of noise is determined on the basis of the road traffic noise model, LUK, developed by the Swiss canton of Zurich. The number of additional cases of health impairment due to incremental noise is calculated with data out of the Swiss Noise Study 90. An assessment of the severity of sleep disturbance and communication disturbance, in comparison to other types of health impairment, was performed by a panel consisting of physicians experienced in the field of severity weighting of disabilities. Results and Discussion. The quantities of health cases and of DALY units are given per 1'000 truck or car kilometres on Swiss roads, and the range of the confidence interval is estimated. A plausibility check is made by a quantitative comparison of the results with health damage due to traffic accidents in Switzerland, and with health damage due to traffic noise in the Netherlands. Conclusions and Outlook. The method is ready for use in LCA practice. However, the temporary solution for transports outside of Switzerland should be replaced by feeding country specific data into the fate and exposure model. Further, a comparable assessment for rail transport would facilitate decisions on road or rail transport. A decisive element of transport noise assessment is the availability of robust links between noise level and medical conditions. Whilst the number of the corresponding studies is sufficiently large, a design for better pooling of study results is desirable.Goal, Scope and Background. The main aim of this paper is to present some methodological considerations concerning existing methods used to assess quality of the LCA study. It relates mainly to the quality of data and the uncertainty of the LCA results. The first paper is strictly devoted to methodological aspects whereas, the second is presented in a separate article (Part II) and devoted mainly to a case study. Methods. The presented analysis is based on two well-known concepts: the Data Quality Indicators (DQIs) and the Pedigree Matrix. In the first phase, the Sensitivity Indicators are created on the basis of the sensitivity analysis and then linked with the DQIs and the Quality Classes. These parameters indicate the relative importance of input data and their theoretical quality levels. Next, the Weidema's Pedigree Matrix (slightly modified) is used to establish the values of the new parameter called the Data Quality Distance (DQD) and to link
 them with the DQIs and Quality Classes. This way the information about the "real" quality levels is provided. Further analysis is performed using the probabilistic distributions and Monte Carlo simulations. Results and Discussion. Thanks to this approach it is possible to make a comparison between two types of the quality factors. On the one hand, the sensitivity analysis allows one to check the importance of input data and to determine their required quality. It is done according to the following relation: the higher the sensitivity indicator, the higher the importance of input data and the higher quality should be demanded. On the other hand, the data have a certain real quality, not always in accord with the demanded one. To make possible a comparison between these two types of quality, it is necessary to find and develop a common denominator for them. Here, for this purpose the DQIs and Quality Classes are used. Conclusions. In the further stage of the assessment the DQIs are used to perform the uncertainty analysis of the LCA results. The results could be additionally analysed by using other techniques of interpretation: the sensitivity-, the contribution-, the comparative-, the discernability- and the uncertainty analysis. Recommendations and Outlook. The presented approach is put into practice to conduct the comparative LCA study for the industrial pumps by using the Ecoindicator99 method. Thanks to this, complex analysis of the credibility of the results is carried out. As a consequence, uncertainty ranges for the LCA results of every product system can be determined [1].Aim, Scope and Background. Aquatic eutrophication is a widespread problem in inland and coastal waters around the world and it should therefore be one of the impact categories to be considered in LCA studies of products and services. In LCAs there are several impact assessment methods to determine characterisation factors for eutrophying nutrients, but few methods have been developed to model fate and spatial aspects. One such method was developed as part of an LCA application of the Finnish forest industry. The aim of this study was to present this characterisation method in which the potential contributions of nitrogen and phosphorus to eutrophication of aquatic ecosystems are calculated. The use of the method was demonstrated by producing site/sector-specific characterisation factors and by constructing a reference value of aquatic eutrophication for Finland. A discussion of sensitivity and uncertainty aspects related to input data is also presented. Methods. The potential contribution to eutrophication from a product system is calculated as a result of the nutrient inputs causing increased production of biomass within aquatic systems. Accordingly, direct nitrogen and phosphorus emissions as well as nitrogen and phosphorus deposition into the watercourses can be included. In the method, characterisation factors for nitrogen and phosphorus emissions are generated by multiplying commonly used equivalency factors by transport and effect factors. Transport and effect factors of the nutrient sources are case-specific and can be determined for each substance individually on the basis of scientific models, empirical data or expert judgements. In this paper, transport and effect factors are determined for different sectors (forest industry, field cultivation, fish far
ming, etc.) in Finland. In addition, temporal aspects can be taken account of in the model by coefficients representing the proportion of nutrient load in the productive period of the total annual load. The model uncertainty was studied by using three different scenarios based on different input data and assumptions. Uncertainties within the input data were assessed as ranges and the effects of input data uncertainty on the results were studied by varying maximum and minimum values of each input variable in the same time. Results and Discussion. The characterisation method developed was applied to provide characterisation factors of aquatic eutrophication for different sectors in Finland. The magnitude of these sector-specific characterisation factors varied greatly. For this reason, the method results were easily differentiated from those commonly used, site-generic characterisation factors produced in LCIAs. Furthermore, reference values of aquatic eutrophication for normalisation purposes in LCIA were generated on the basis of sector-specific nutrient emissions and characterisation factors. Different scenarios produce alternative pictures of the contributions of various sectors to aquatic eutrophication. By examining the scores of different sectors, it can be concluded that uncertainties in the emission estimates of field cultivation and fate of nitrogen originating from deposition have the greatest effect on the results. In the average scenario, the uncertainty range for the reference value was estimated to be +/- 40% due to all uncertainties in input variables. Conclusions. The results of the work reveal the importance of site-specific characterisation approach in the context of aquatic eutrophication. Furthermore, differentiation of nutrient forms in various sectors means that the question of determination of chatacterisation factors is also related to sector-specific issues. The method demonstrated is flexible, and it can be applied to geographical areas rather than to Finland as a whole. The use of sensitivity and uncertainty analysis is recommended for the interpretation of results, because there is no empirical test applicable for evaluation of the validity of results. In order to reduce uncertainty in results, further research is needed, in particular on the roles of different nutrient forms as sources for aquatic biota, on spatial differentiation of nitrogen and phosphorus as production-limiting factors, and on fate of nitrogen in catchments. Outlook. The weakness of the method is related to the accessibility of input data, restricting to construct the characterisation model of aquatic eutrophication, for example, on the European level. However, it seems that legislative requirements of the European Union to study 'target nutrient loads' of aquatic eutrophication in the catchments of each Member State can improve the situation of the accessibility of input data in the near future.Goal, Scope, Background. To improve the environmental performance of chemical products or services, especially via comparisons of chemical products, LCA is a suitable evaluation method. However, no procedure to obtain comprehensive LCI-data on the production of fine and speciality chemicals is available to date, and information on such production processes is scarce. Thus, a procedure was developed for the estimation of LCIs of chemical production pro
cess-steps, which relies on only a small amount of input data. Methods. A generic input-output scheme of chemical production process-steps was set up, and equations to calculate inputs and outputs were established. For most parameters in the resulting estimation procedure, default values were derived from on-site data on chemical production processes and from heuristics. Uncertainties in the estimated default values were reflected as est-case and worst-case scenarios. The procedure was applied to a case study comparing the production of two active ingredients used for crop protection. Verification and a sensitivity analysis were carried out. Results and Discussion. It was found that the impacts from the mass and energy flows estimated by the procedure represent a significant share of the impacts assessed in the case study. In a verification, LCI-data from existing processes yielded results within the range of the estimated best-case and worst-case scenarios. Note that verification data could not be obtained for all process steps. From the verification results, it was inferred that mass and energy flows of existing processes for the production of fine and speciality chemicals correspond more frequently to the estimated best-case than to the worst-case scenario. In the sensitivity analysis, solvent demand was found to be the most crucial parameter in the environmental performance of the chemical production processes assessed. Conclusion. Mass and energy flows in LCIs of production processes for fine and speciality chemicals should not be neglected, even if only little information on a process is available. The estimation procedure described here helps to overcome lacking information in a transparent, consistent way. Recommendations and Outlook. Additional verifications and a more detailed estimation of the default parameters are desirable to learn more about the accuracy of the estimation procedure. The procedure should also be applied to case studies to gain insight into the usefulness of the estimation results in different decision-making contexts.Background, Goal and Scope. The research presented here represents one part of GlaxoSmithKline's (GSK) efforts to identify and improve the life cycle impact profile of pharmaceutical products. The main goal of this work was to identify and analyze the cradle-to-gate environmental impacts in the synthesis of a typical Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API). A cradle-to-gate life cycle assessment of a commercial pharmaceutical product is presented as a case study. Methods. Life cycle inventory data were obtained using a modular gate-to-gate methodology developed in partnership with North Carolina State University (NCSU) while the impact assessment was performed utilizing GSK's sustainability metrics methodology. Results and Discussion. Major contributors to the environmental footprint of a typical pharmaceutical product were identified. The results of this study indicate that solvent use accounts for a majority of the potential cradle-to-gate impacts associated with the manufacture of the commercial pharmaceutical product under study. If spent solvent is incinerated instead of recovered the life-cycle profile and impacts are considerably increased. Conclusions. This case study provided GSK with key insights into the life-cycle impacts of pharmaceutical products. It also helped to establish a well-
documented approach to using life cycle within GSK and fostered the development of a practical methodology that is applicable to strategic decision making, internal business processes and other processes and tools.Part 2 summarises the results of a comparative LCA study of HT stone wool, flax representing crop grown products and paper wool representing recycled products applied for roof insulation, in which an attempt is made to answer the question of whether the biological products flax and paper wool are more environmentally preferable than the mineral product stone wool representing more traditional insulation materials. Of the three products compared, paper wool has, in general, the lowest global and regional environmental impacts and flax insulation the highest, with stone wool falling in between. A notable exception is the total energy use, where stone wool has the lowest consumption, followed by cellulose and flax. The study also addresses occupational health, using an approach similar to that used for risk assessment. Here, the modern less biopersistent stone wool products are seen as the safest alternatives, because of a low potential for exposure, sufficient animal testing and the absence of carcinogenic properties. Overall, the differences between the investigated products are of minor environmental significance compared to that achieved by their use, namely insulation of buildings, which saves energy corresponding to more than 100 times the environmental impacts incurred in their manufacture. The main conclusion is that the quality and fitness for use of an insulation product throughout its useful life span is the most important aspect in the life cycle of insulation materials.Goal, Scope and Background. District heating, the utilization of centrally produced heat for space heating and domestic hot water generation, has the potential to contribute to the eco-efficient use of energy resources in the parts of the world where space heating is needed. In literature, environmental studies on district heating mainly consider the emissions from heat generation; the environmental impact from the distribution system is seldom discussed. This paper presents a life cycle assessment of the production of district heating pipes, based on a cradle-to-gate life cycle inventory commissioned by the Swedish District Heating Association. No external review has been performed but a reference group of district heating experts familiar with the practice was involved in the choice of cases as well as in reviewing parts of the study. Methods. Manufacturing of district heating pipes at Powerpipe Systems AB, Goteborg, Sweden, was studied. Prefabricated polyurethane insulated district heating pipes were considered, with a steel tube and a protective casing made of high-density polyethylene. Production of pipes during the time period 1999-2000 was investigated. The functional unit used in the study is production of one district heating pipe unit. The studied pipes are: a twin pipe of the dimension DN25 (12m long) and single pipes of the dimensions DN25 (12m), DN100 (12m) and DN500 (16m). Results and Discussion. A short description of the inventory, some inventory results and a life cycle impact assessment are presented. Characterizations according to GWP, AP, POCP and resource depletion are given as well as two weightings: Ecolndicator99 and Ecoscarcity. 
If the life cycle is grouped into 'Materials production', 'Transports', 'Manufacturing' and 'Waste management', the 'Materials production' gives rise to a dominating part of the environmental impact. Recommendation and Perspective. To use materials in the pipes as efficiently as possible is the most important feature in order to reduce the environmental impact from production of district heating pipes. Twin pipes can be a more material efficient solution than single pipes. It is important to make sure that environmental improvements from changes in the pipe production phase are not offset by other effects in the total life cycle of the district heating pipe.The development of the LCIA programme of the UNEP/SETAC Life Cycle Initiative started with a global survey of LCA practitioners. There were 91 LCIA-specific responses from all global regions. Respondents gave an indication of how they use LCA with respect to both the stage of LCA that they base decisions on (LCI, LCIA or a combination of both) as well as the types of decisions which they support with LCA information. The issues requiring immediate attention within the UNEP SETAC Life Cycle Initiative identified from this User Needs analysis are the need for transparency in the methodology, for scientific confidence and for scientific co-operation as well as the development of a recommended set of factors and methodologies. Of interest is the fact that results from the different regions highlighted the need for different impact categories. Based on this information proposals were made for new impact categories to be included in LCA (and thus LCIA). The LCIA programme aims to enhance the availability of sound LCA data and methods and to deliver guidance on their use. More specifically, it aims to 1) make results and recommendations widely available for users through the creation of a worldwide accessible information system and 2) establish recommended characterisation factors and related methodologies for the different impact categories, possibly consisting of sets at both midpoint and damage level. The work of the LCIA programme of the UNEP/SETAC Life Cycle Initiative has been started within four task forces on 1) LCIA information system and framework, 2) natural resources and land use, 3) toxic impacts, and 4) transboundary impacts. All participants willing to contribute to these efforts are invited to contact the LCIA programme manager or to join the next LCIA workgroup meeting that will take place in at the world SETAC congress in Portland on Thursday 18 November 2004.Goal, Scope and Background. A consequential life cycle assessment (LCA) is designed to generate information on the consequences of decisions. This paper includes a comprehensive presentation of the consequential approach to system boundaries, allocation and data selection. It is based on a text produced within the SETAC-Europe working group on scenarios in LCA. For most of the methodological problems, we describe ideal methodological solutions as well as simplifications intended to make the method feasible in practice. Method. We compile, summarize and refine descriptions of consequential methodology elements that have been presented in separate papers, in addition to methodological elements and general conclusions that have not previously been published. Results and Conclusions. A consequential LCA ideally includes act
ivities within and outside the life cycle that are affected by a change within the life cycle of the product under investigation. In many cases this implies the use of marginal data and that allocation is typically avoided through system expansion. The model resulting from a consequential life cycle inventory (LCI) also includes the alternative use of constrained production factors as well as the marginal supply and demand on affected markets. As a result, the consequential LCI model does not resemble the traditional LCI model, where the main material flows are described from raw material extraction to waste management. Instead, it is a model of causal relationships originating at the decision at hand or the decision-maker that the LCI is intended to inform.Goal and Background. Current Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) procedures have demonstrated certain limitations in the South African manufacturing industry context. The aim of this paper is to propose a modified LCIA procedure, which is based on the protection of resource groups. Methods. A LCIA framework is introduced that applies the characterisation procedure of available midpoint categories, with the exception of land use. Characterisation factors for land occupation and transformation is suggested for South Africa. A distance-to-target approach is used for the normalisation of midpoint categories, which focuses on the ambient quality and quantity objectives for four resource groups: Air, Water, Land and Mined Abiotic Resources. The quality and quantity objectives are determined for defined South African Life Cycle Assessment (SALCA) Regions and take into account endpoint or damage targets. Following the precautionary approach, a Resource Impact Indicator (RII) is calculated for the resource groups. Subjective weighting values for the resource groups are also proposed, based on survey results from the manufacturing industry sector and the expenditure trends of the South African national government. The subjective weighting values are used to calculate overall Environmental Performance Resource Impact Indicators (EPRIIs) when comparing life cycle systems with each other. The proposed approaches are evaluated with a known wool case study. Results and Discussion. The calculation of a RII ensures that all natural resources that are important from a South African perspective are duly considered in a LCIA. The results of a LCIA are consequently not reliant on a detailed Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) and the number of midpoint categories that converge on a single resource group. The case study establishes the importance of region-specificity, for LCIs and LCIAs. Conclusions. The proposed LCIA procedure demonstrates reasonable ease of communication of LCIA results. It further allows for the inclusion of additional midpoint categories and is adaptable for specific regions. Recommendations and Outlook. The acceptance of the LCIA procedure must be evaluated for different industry and government sectors. Also, the adequate incorporation of Environmental Performance Resource Impact Indicators (EPRIIs) into decision-making for Life Cycle Management purposes must be researched further. Specifically, the application of the procedures for supply chain management will be investigated.Goal, Scope and Background. This paper is the second part of the publication which is devoted to comparative LCA analy
sis of the industrial pumps. The previous paper deals with the methodological aspects concerning quality assessment and forms an independent work. This paper uses practically only the methodological suggestions made there. The main aim of the presented study is to make a comparison between the industrial pumps which are based on two different technologies. The Life Cycle Assessment method is used to check whether the differences of the manufacturing processes influence the level of the potential environmental impact during the whole life cycle of the analysed products. Methods. The Life Cycle Assessment is carried out using the Ecoindicator99 method. Additionally, an extensive quality analysis of the LCA study is made (Part 1). To make the process of an,identification of the data easier and faster, they are assigned to a special data documentation form. To ensure the credibility of the LCA results different methods of interpretation are used. Results and Discussion. The LCA analysis shows clear superiority of the pumps manufactured using modern technology. It seems that this superiority results not only from the differences in the emissions, but also from different characteristics of effectiveness in the usage stage. Thanks to the uncertainty analysis, each LCA result is provided with the range of uncertainty. Conclusions. The LCA results are supported by different techniques of interpretation: the sensitivity-, the contribution-, the comparative-, the discernability- and the uncertainty analysis. There is strong evidence of the superiority of the pumps based on the modern technology. Recommendations and Outlook. The main source of the environmental impact in the case of pumps is the usage stage and the consumption of energy. That is why it should be the main area to improve. The LCA results show that actions taken in the usage stage and energy consumption can lead to a considerable reduction of the environmental impacts.Goal, Scope and Background. Photochemical ozone creation potentials (POCPs) typically used in life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) to address the impact category 'photo-oxidant formation' only provide factors for particular volatile organic compounds and do not take into account background concentrations and meteorological conditions. However, the formation of ozone from volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) is highly dependent on the background pollutant concentrations and meteorological conditions. Some LCIA manuals therefore recommend working with potentials for high background concentrations of NOx (Derwent 1998), and potentials for low background concentrations of NOx (Andersson-Skold 1992). Objectives. This study has introduced an improved set of POCPs independently of meteorological and emission conditions specific to a given period or location. Whereas current POCP values may be relevant to estimate the photo-oxidant formation over a certain (temporally and spatially well-defined) domain, this study has further introduced more relevant values with respect to potential impacts of ozone on human health and environment. Methods. For the computation of POCP values on the scale of Western Europe, independently of meteorological and emission conditions specific to a given period or location, a Euterian chemistry-transport numerical model (CHIMERE-continental) has been implement
ed over three summer seasons. POCPs have been evaluated for ten VOC species (including the whole VOC group), CO and NOx. The coherence of this new set of POCP values with previous studies has been checked. The spatial representativity of POCP values over the simulation domain in Europe has also been addressed. The robustness of these POCP values to changes in the implemented chemical mechanism used in our model has been checked. Results and Discussion. The POCPs computed in this study were generally lower than the POCPs calculated in previous studies. In the previous studies, but not here, the POCPs have been calculated with particular meteorological conditions (during anticyclonic, fair weather conditions) or emission levels (high polluted backgrounds) known to be optimal with respect to ozone formation. Despite the quantitative variations in the POCP values, we have found a good agreement in the relative ranking of the pollutant species between this study and previous studies. It was also shown that POCP values display significant spatial variability over Western Europe (the largest spatial differences were obtained for NOx where the sign of the POCP value even changes from region to region). Conclusions. Finally, the temporally and spatially averaged values obtained here for the POCP index update previous values and represent an attempt to generate the most appropriate and accurate scale for European conditions independently of meteorological and emission conditions specific to a given period or location. Recommendations and Outlook. These new PCOPs should be useful to LCIA-practitioners in further life cycle impact assessment. However, for the NOx species, we do not recommend the use of the POCP value for LCIA.Background. Many types of weighting methods, which have integrated the various environmental impacts that are used for life-cycle impact assessment (LCIA), were proposed with the aim of developing the methodology as a useful information resource for decision making, such as in the selection of products. Economic valuation indexes, in particular, have attracted attention, as their assessment results are easy to understand and can be applied in conjunction with other assessment tools, including life-cycle costing (LCC) and environmental accounting. Conjoint analysis has been widely used in market research, and has recently been applied to research in environmental economics. The method enables us to provide two types of assessment results; an economic valuation and a dimensionless index. This method is therefore expected to contribute greatly to increasing the level of research into weighting methodology, in which an international consensus has yet to be established. Conjoint analysis, however, has not previously been applied to LCIA. Objective. LCA National Project (METI/NEDO/JENIAI) has conducted a study aimed at the development of a Japanese version of the damage-oriented impact assessment method called LIME (Lifecycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling), in order to enhance its reliability and transparency. This study aimed at the application of conjoint analysis to the step of weighting in LIME. An ultimate goal of the research is to determine an amount of willingness to pay (WTP) for avoiding a unit quantity of damage of every safeguard subject (endpoint). Methods. Potential annual damages of four safeguard 
subjects (human health, biodiversity, social assets, and primary production), known as normalization values in LCIA, were used as fundamental information in this study. These data can he obtained through damage assessment. Taking this background into account, we performed a comparison of importance among the four safeguard subjects defined in LIME by applying conjoint analysis. A choice-based type of questionnaire was prepared for the interview with the respondents selected by random sampling. Pre-tests were conducted for 108 respondents in advance of the main survey. After we confirmed that the analyzed results of the pre-test were revealed to be statistically significant, the main surveys were conducted for 400 respondents by interviewing. WTP per quota can be determined by statistical simulation based on the random utility theory reflecting the responses to the questionnaires by random sampling. Results and Discussion. The values of one unit (standard) of attributes were significant statistically at the 1 % level (all of the p value for coefficients of safeguard subjects were less than 0.0001). Based on the calculated results, two types of weighting factors, an economic valuation and a dimensionless index were obtained. The capability of generating two kinds of weighting factors is unique to conjoint analysis. A relative comparison of importance among the four categories indicates that human health gains the highest recognition, biodiversity gains the second highest recognition, and the weight of primary production and social assets have been estimated to be relatively smaller than the other two safeguard subjects. Conclusion. It is desirable to prepare a small number of attributes when conducting a conjoint analysis, because the efforts of respondents have to be reduced as far as possible. We confirmed that the damage-oriented method, which minimizes the number of attributes, is suitable to the requirement of conjoint analysis, because the results of comparisons among safeguard subjects were statistically significant, and showed that the contents of the questionnaires were well understood among the respondents. judging from the results of this study, where statistical significance has not even been fully verified in the conventional research on the development of weighting coefficients for LCIA, it can be concluded that the weighting factors derived from this study based on the economic theory have a possibility to reveal the impact of environment on society.Goal and Background. Uncertainty is commonly not taken into account in LCA studies, which downgrades their usability for decision support. One often stated reason is a lack of method. The aim of this paper is to develop a method for calculating the uncertainty propagation in LCAs in a fast and reliable manner Approach. The method is developed in a model that reflects the calculation of an LCA. For calculating the uncertainty, the model. combines approximation formulas and Monte Carlo Simulation. It is based on virtual data that distinguishes true values and random errors or uncertainty, and that hence allows one to compare the performance of error propagation formulas and simulation results. The model is developed for a linear chain of processes, but extensions for covering also branched and looped. product systems are made and described. Results. The paper proposes a combined use
 of approximation formulas and Monte Carlo simulation for calculating uncertainty, in LCAs, developed primarily for the sequential approach. During the calculation, a parameter observation controls the performance of the approximation formulas. Quantitative threshold values are given in the paper. The combination thus transcends drawbacks of simulation and approximation. Conclusions and Outlook. The uncertainty question is a true Jigsaw puzzle for LCAs and the method presented in this paper may serve as one piece in solving it. It may thus foster a sound use of uncertainty assessment in LCAs. Analysing a proper management of the input uncertainty, taking into account suitable sampling; and estimation techniques; using the approach for real case studies, implementing it in LCA software for automatically applying the proposed combined uncertainty model and, on the other hand., investigating about how people do decide, and should decide, when their decision relies on explicitly uncertain LCA outcomes - these all are neighbouring puzzle pieces inviting to further work.Background and Objective. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a highly data intensive undertaking, where collecting the life cycle inventory (LCI) data is the most tabour intensive part. The aim of this paper is to show a method for representing the LCI in a simplified manner which not only allows an estimative, quantitative LCA, but also the application of advanced analysis methods to LCA. Procedure and Method. The method is based on two main components: Firstly the parameterisation of the life cycle inventory for complete product ranges, e.g. relative material composition (the parameterisation factor is product mass or product volume), relative manufacturing inputs and wastes (the parameterisation factor is production output, in number of items, mass or volume), inputs, wastes and emissions during use (the parameterisation factors are efficiency, emissions per unit energy converted, etc.). Secondly, the parameterisation factors are related to design parameters, e.g. the efficiency of three-phase induction motors increase as the torque output increases and decreases with the number of poles, while the mass of the same induction motor increases with torque. Determining these relationships is initially labour-intensive, but only has to be done once for a product type and it is just a matter of fitting appropriate models after the collection of the relevant data. Also, required data is not impossible to come by, and respective industries publish many of the relevant data for marketing and design purposes. Due to the wide variety of products - whereby here the term 'product' is used in the widest sense and can be a component, an assembly, a consumer product or service - the relationships are represented as ranges with upper and lower limits. One of the limits represents 'the best practically possible' and is a good indication of what the technologies' capabilities are at the time. Top-down approaches allow the approximate determination of manufacturing inventories for product ranges. Bringing the two components together, the LCA analyst can use known design parameters and so quickly determine an estimate of the life cycle inventory, after which it is then a relatively simple step to carry out the full, approximate LCA. Furthermore, this method can be extended to include life cycle costi
ng as an extension, to simultaneously assess economic aspects of the design. Case Study. The method is further illustrated using a 3-phase asynchronous motor as an example and it is shown how the changing needs during the design process are utilised. Discussion and Conclusion. The paper introduces the concept of parameterised inventories for the use in LCA, describes the general procedure of determining the relationships of the parameterised inventories to design parameters and outlines future developments enabled by this method of inventory representation. The novel parts of the method are a simplified, but quantitative LCA method. For the first time this enables parametric studies and sensitivity analysis, not only for varying material compositions, but varying the underlying design parameters in complex interactions, and finding optimised sets of solutions for those design parameters to achieve one or more optimised criteri(on)a. Perspective. The full potential of the method as an analysis tool, especially in the early design phases, will be reached in an integrated engineering environment, where relevant LCA and cost data are automatically and systematically exchanged along the supply chain.Goal, Scope and Background. In 2001, a new law on the recycling of end-of-life electric home appliances (EL-EHA) was put into effect in Japan; it was the first legislation of its sort in the world, and deserves to be called the 'Japan model.' This article is concerned with the LCA of alternative life-cycle strategies for EL-EHA, which consist of recycling as prescribed by the law, 'ecodesign' strategies such as the implementation of design for disassembly (DfD) and the extension of product life (EPL), with and without ex-post functional upgradability, and the once-dominant treatment methods such as landfilling and simple shredding. Methods. We use the waste input-output (WIO) analysis, a new method of hybrid LCA that was developed by the authors [I]. The WIO extends the conventional input-output analysis to explicitly take into account the interdependence between the flow of goods and the flow of waste in the whole economy, and. hence provides an optimal platform for LCA involving waste treatment and recycling. Furthermore, the WIO enables us to evaluate not only environmental impacts, but also economic: impacts such as sectoral output and employment. Our analysis is based on the WIO table for 1995 and detailed process data. on recycling. Results and Discussion. Recycling was found to outperform the 'traditional' treatment method strategy with regard to the reduction of CO2 emission, landfill consumption, and the demand for abiotic resources. Thanks to efficient utilization of the existing retail network system, it was also found to be more efficient economically. Additional implementation of DfD and the associated increase in the quality of recovered materials (plastics) were found to augment the positive environmental impacts of recycling. The EPL without upgrading resulted in a significant reduction in the environmental impacts, but also in the level of employment. On the other hand, the EPL with upgrading was found to outperform the recycling strategy in terms of environmental impacts without having significant negative economic impacts. Conclusion and Recommendation. Recycling of EL-EHA, as prescribed by the Japanese law on the recycling of EL
-EHA, was found to be effective in reducing CO, emission, depletion of abiotic resources, generation of waste, and landfill consumption, provided the rate of retrieval remains at a high level. Our results also indicate the possible effectiveness of ecodesign strategy toward the realization of a sustainable economy.Global Scope and Background. The study was aimed at presenting the methodology of the process eco-indicator, in relation to hard coal mines, and thereby making evaluation of the impact of the mine's coal extraction process on the environment. The life cycle of a mine is made up of three phases: opening and developing the mine's deposit, extraction of the mine's deposit, closing the mine. Methods. The assessment of environmental influence of mining operation of a colliery was executed on a basis of the life cycle analysis, in accordance with the standard series PN-EN 14040. The environmental loads caused by individual unit processes were calculated by means of the aforementioned methodology with division into the basic influence categories: human health, ecosystem quality and natural resources. The obtained values of eco-indicators for the individual unit processes made it possible to compare the unit-process-caused environmental loads. Mean values of the eco-indicators of the individual unit processes were calculated by means of the inventory analysis covering 38 collieries. Next, these indicators were used to compare environmental load values by each similar process in a colliery. A total eco-indicator was calculated for colliery by summing up the eco-indicators of the individual unit processes. The eco-indicators, structured as above, were calculated for the phase of opening out a deposit and for the phase of extraction. Results and Discussion. The model mine in the phase of extraction of a deposit causes a total environmental load which expressed in points of the eco-indicator 99 amounts to 23.9 [MEw]. In the 'human health' category losses amount to 8.4 per cent, in the 'quality of ecosystem' 0.6 per cent and in the 'resourses' category 91 per cent. The greatest losses in all categories are caused by the process of getting body of coal and the next greatest ones are: In the 'human health'category - cleaning coal at a preparation plant (250.0 kEw), In the 'quality of ecosystem' category - cleaning coal at a preparation plant (25.0 kEw), In the 'resources' category - entry driving by means of explosives (745.7 kEw). Value of the eco-indicator 99 per 1 Mg (tonne) of coal extracted at the model mine amounts to 9.55 Ew. On a basis of this methodology, calculations of the value of the eco-indicator 99 were performed for a real working colliery (extraction of 1.23 million tonnes in 2001). An inventory of characteristic quantities of individual unit processes connected with the extraction of this colliery was prepared. The total environmental load of this mine was 11.14 MEw (in the 'human health' category losses amounted to 7.9 per cent, in the 'quality of ecosystem' category 0.5 per cent, and in the resources' category 91.6 per cent). The greatest losses in all categories were caused by the process of getting body of coal which amounted to 10.8 MEw, and next the process of driving a heading by means of heading machine which amounted to 130.9 kEw. The value of the eco-indicator 99 for 1 Mg (tonne) of coal extracted in 2001 at the abo
ve-mentioned mine amounts to 9.06 Ew and is lower than the value of the eco-indicator 99 calculated for the model mine. Conclusion. By means of the presented methodology it is possible to calculate environmental loads caused by individual unit processes with division into the basic categories of influence: human health, quality of ecosystem and natural resources. The calculated values of the eco-indicators of the individual unit processes enable to make comparisons of environmental loads and eventual decision making on changes in the ecological policy of a mine. Recommendation and Perspective (Outlook). The presented LCA methodology can be used to compare the operation of individual mines in the aspect of their influence on the environment. If the data of the same type with regard to unit processes are at disposal, then the mines can be ranked. Based on the LCA's results, it is possible to make capital decisions connected with modernisation of specific production processes.Goal, Scope and Background. Agricultural production includes not only crop production, but also food processing, transport, distribution, preparation, and disposal. The effects of all these must be considered and controlled if the food chain is to be made sustainable. The goal of this case study was to identify and review the significant areas of potential environmental impacts across the whole life cycle of cane sugar on the island of Mauritius. Methods. The functional unit was one tonne of exported raw sugar from the island. The life cycle investigated includes the stage of cane cultivation and harvest, cane burning, transport, fertilizer and herbicide manufacture, cane sugar manufacture and electricity generation from bagasse. Data was gathered from companies, factories, sugar statistics, databases and literature. Energy depletion, climate change, acidification, oxidant formation, nutrification, aquatic ecotoxicity and human toxicity were assessed. Results and Discussion. The inventory of the current sugar production system revealed that the production of one tonne of sugar requires, on average, a land area of 0.12 ha, the application of 0.84 kg of herbicides and 16.5 kg of N-fertilizer, use of 553 tons of water and 170 tonne-km of transport services. The total energy consumption is about 14235 MJ per tonne of sugar, of which fossil fuel consumption accounts for 1995 MJ and the rest is from renewable bagasse. 160 kg of CO2 per tonne of sugar is released from fossil fuel energy use and the net avoided emissions of CO2 on the island due to the use of bagasse as an energy source is 932,000 tonnes. 1.7 kg TSP, 1.21 kg SO2,1.26 kg NO, and 1.26 kg CO are emitted to the air per tonne of sugar produced. 1.7 kg N, 0.002 kg herbicide, 19.1 kg COD, 13.1 kg TSS and 0.37 kg PO43- are emitted to water per tonne of sugar produced. Cane cultivation and harvest accounts for the largest environmental impact (44%) followed by fertilizer and herbicide manufacture (22%), sugar processing and electricity generation (20%), transportation (13%) and cane burning (1%). Nutrification is the main impact followed by acidification and energy depletion. Conclusions. There are a number of options for improvement of the environmental performance of the cane-sugar production chain. Cane cultivation, and fertilizer and herbicide manufacture, were hotspots for most of the impact categories investigated
. Better irrigation systems, precision farming, optimal use of herbicides, centralisation of sugar factories, implementation of co-generation projects and pollution control during manufacturing and bagasse burning are measures that would considerably decrease resource use and environmental impacts. Recommendation and Outlook. LCA was shown to be a valuable tool to assess the environmental impacts throughout the food production chain and to evaluate government policies on agricultural production systems.Goal, Scope and Background. Nowadays, every strategy must be developed taking into account the global impact on the environment; if this aspect is forgotten, a change of environmental loads or their effect will be caused and no reduction will be attained. For instance, a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP), which is considered a priori as an ecological treatment system, gives rise to an environmental impact due to its energy consumption, use of chemical compounds, emissions to the atmosphere and sludge production, the post-treatment of which will also have diverse environmental effects. The goal of this study is to evaluate the potential environmental impact corresponding to a municipal WWTP and to identify the hot spots associated with the process. Methods. In this study, the Centre of Environmental Science (CML) of Leiden University methodology has been considered to quantify the potential environmental impact associated with the system under study. A comprehensive analysis of the WWTP was evaluated for the physico-chemical characterisation of the wastewaters as well as the inventory of all the inputs (energy, chemical compounds,...) and outputs (emissions to air, water, soil and solid waste generation) associated with the global process. Regarding Life Cycle Inventory Assessment, SimaPro 5.0 was used and in particular CML factors (updated in 2002) were chosen for characterisation and normalisation stages. Results and Discussion. A comprehensive inventory of empirical data from water, sludge and gas flows during 2000 and 2001 was obtained. Two impact categories arise due to their significance: eutrophication and terrestrial ecotoxicity. Consequently, the aspects to be minimised in order to reduce the environmental impact of the system are the pollutant load at the watercourse discharge (mainly NH3, PO43- and COD, even when all of them are below legal limits) and the emissions to soil (mainly Cr, Hg and Zn, even when they are present in low concentrations) when the sludge is used for agricultural application. Conclusions. As far as the environmental impact is concerned, differentiation between humid and dry season is not required as results are practically equal for both situations. Water discharge and sludge application to land have turned out to be the main contributors in the environmental performance of a WWTP Regarding the former, the removal of nitrogen by means of a nitrification-denitrification system coupled to conventional biological aerobic treatment implies a high environmental impact reduction and, as for the latter, bearing in mind the proposed legislation, heavy metals as well as pathogens are supposed to be the key parameters to define the most adequate treatment strategies for the generated sludge. Recommendations and Outlook. This study can serve as a basis for future studies that can apply a similar policy to a great numbe
r of wastewater facilities. Besides, features such as different treatment systems and capacities can provide additional information with the final aim of including the environmental vector in the decision-making process when the operation of a WWTP is intended to be optimised. Moreover, sludge must also be a focus of attention due to the expected increase and its major contribution to the global environmental impact of a WWTP, which can determine other treatment alternatives.Goal, Scope and Background. Gipuzkoa is a department of the Vasque Country (Spain) with a population of about 700,000 people. By the year 2000 approximately 85% of municipal solid waste in this area was managed by landfilling, and only 15% was recycled. Due to environmental law restrictions and landfill capacity being on its limit, a planning process was initiated by the authorities. LCA was used, from an environmental point of view, to assess 7 possible scenarios arising from the draft Plan for the 2016 time horizon. Main Features. In each scenario, 9 waste flows are analysed: rest waste, paper and cardboard, glass containers, light packaging, organic-green waste, as well as industrial/commercial wood, metals and plastics, and wastewater sludge. Waste treatments range from recycling to energy recovery and landfilling. Results. Recycling of the waste flows separated at the source (paper and cardboard, glass, light packaging, organic-green waste, wood packaging, metals and plastics) results in net environmental benefits caused by the substitution of primary materials, except in water consumption. These benefits are common to the 7 different scenarios analysed. However, some inefficiencies are detected, mainly the energy consumption in collection and transport of low density materials, and water consumption in plastic recycling. The remaining flows, mixed waste and wastewater sludge, are the ones causing the major environmental impacts, by means of incineration, landfilling of partially stabilised organic material, as well as thermal drying of sludge. With the characterisation results, none of the seven scenarios can be clearly identified as the most preferable, although, due to the high recycling rates expected by the Plan, net environmental benefits are achieved in 9 out of 10 impact categories in all scenarios when integrated waste management is assessed (the sum of the 9 flows of waste). Finally., there are no relevant differences between scenarios concerning the number of treatment plants considered. Nevertheless, only the effects on transportation impacts were assessed in the LCA, since the plant construction stage was excluded from the system boundaries. Conclusions. The results of the study show the environmental importance of material recycling in waste management, although the recycling schemes assessed can be improved in some aspects. It is also important to highlight the environmental impact of incineration and landfilling of waste, as well as thermal drying of sludge using fossil fuels. One of the main findings of applying LCA to integrated waste management in Gipuzkoa is the fact that the benefits of high recycling rates can compensate for the impacts of mixed waste and wastewater sludge. Recommendations and Outlook. Although none of the scenarios can be clearly identified as the one having the best environmental performance, the authorities in Gipuzkoa no
w have objective information about the future scenarios, and a multidisciplinary panel could be formed in order to weight the impacts if necessary. In our opinion, LCA was successfully applied in Gipuzkoa as an environmental too] for decision making.This article is the preamble to a set of articles describing initial results from an on-going European Commission funded, 5th Framework project called OMNIITOX, Operational Models aNd Information tools for Industrial applications of eco/TOXicological impact assessments. The different parts of this case study-driven project are briefly presented and put in relation to the aims of contributing to an operational life cycle-impact assessment (LCIA) model for impacts of toxicants. The present situation has been characterised by methodological difficulties, both regarding choice of the characterisation model(s) and limited input data on chemical properties, which often has resulted in the omission of toxicants from the LCIA, or at best focus on well characterised chemicals. The project addresses both problems and integrates models, as well as data, in an information system - the OMNIITOX IS. There is also a need for clarification of the relations between the (environmental) risk assessments of toxicants and LCIA, in addition to investigating the feasibility of introducing LCA into European chemicals legislation, tasks that also were addressed in the project.Coal Scope Background. The main focus in OMNIITOX is on characterisation models for toxicological impacts in a life cycle assessment (LCA) context. The OMNIITOX information system (OMNIITOX IS) is being developed primarily to facilitate characterisation modelling and calculation of characterisation factors to provide users with information necessary for environmental management and control of industrial systems. The modelling and implementation of operational characterisation models on eco and human toxic impacts requires the use of data and modelling approaches often originating from regulatory chemical risk assessment (RA) related disciplines. Hence, there is a need for a concept model for the data and modelling approaches that can be interchanged between these different contexts of natural system model approaches. Methods. The concept modelling methodology applied in the OMNIITOX project is built on database design principles and ontological principles in a consensus based and iterative process by participants from the LCA, RA and environmental informatics disciplines. Results. The developed OMNIITOX concept model focuses on the core concepts of substance, nature framework, load, indicator, and mechanism, with supplementary concepts to support these core concepts. They refer to the modelled cause, effect, and the relation between them, which are aspects inherent in all models used in the disciplines within the scope of OMNIITOX. This structure provides a possibility to compare the models on a fundamental level and a language to communicate information between the disciplines and to assess the possibility of transparently reusing data and modelling approaches of various levels of detail and complexity. Conclusions. The current experiences from applying the concept model show that the OMNIITOX concept model increases the structuring of all information needed to describe characterisation models transparently. From a user perspective the OMNIITOX 
concept model aids in understanding the applicability, use of a characterisation model and how to interpret model outputs. Recommendations and Outlook. The concept model provides a tool for structured characterisation modelling, model comparison, model implementation, model quality management, and model usage. Moreover, it could be used for the structuring of any natural environment cause-effect model concerning other impact categories than toxicity.Background and Objective. In the OMNIITOX project 11 partners have the common objective to improve environmental management tools for the assessment of (eco)toxicological impacts. The detergent case study aims at: i) comparing three Procter & Gamble laundry detergent forms (Regular Powder-RP, Compact Powder-CP and Compact Liquid-CL) regarding their potential impacts on aquatic ecotoxicity, ii) providing insights into the differences between various Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) methods with respect to data needs and results and iii) comparing the results from Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) with results from an Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA). Material and Methods. The LCIA has been conducted with EDIP97 (chronic aquatic ecotoxicity) [1], USES-LCA (freshwater and marine water aquatic ecotoxicity, sometimes referred to as CML2001) [2, 3] and IMPACT 2002 (covering freshwater aquatic ecotoxicity) [4]. The comparative product ERA is based on the EU Ecolabel approach for detergents [5] and FUSES [6], which is based on the Technical Guidance Document (TGD) of the EU on Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) of chemicals [7]. Apart from the Eco-label approach, all calculations are based on the same set of physico-chemical and toxicological effect data to enable a better comparison of the methodological differences. For the same reason, the system boundaries were kept the same in all cases, focusing on emissions into water at the disposal stage. Results and Discussion. Significant differences between the LCIA methods with respect to data needs and results were identified. Most LCIA methods for freshwater ecotoxicity and the ERA see the compact and regular powders as similar, followed by compact liquid. IMPACT 2002 (for freshwater) suggests the liquid is equally as good as the compact powder, while the regular powder comes out worse by a factor of 2. USES-LCA for marine water shows a very different picture seeing the compact liquid as the clear winner over the powders, with the regular powder the least favourable option. Even the LCIA methods which result in the same product ranking, e.g. EDIP97 chronic aquatic ecotoxicity and USES-LCA freshwater ecotoxicity, significantly differ in terms of most contributing substances. Whereas, according to IMPACT 2002 and USES-LCA marine water, results are entirely dominated by inorganic substances, the other LCIA methods and the ERA assign a key role to surfactants. Deviating results are mainly due to differences in the fate and exposure modelling and, to a lesser extent, to differences in the toxicological effect calculations. Only IMPACT 2002 calculates the effects based on a mean value approach, whereas all other LCIA methods and the ERA tend to prefer a PNEC-based approach. In a comparative context like LCA the OMNIITOX project has taken the decision for a combined mean and PNEC-based approach, as it better represents the 'average' toxicity while still takin
g into account more sensitive species. However, the main reason for deviating results remains in the calculation of the residence time of emissions in the water compartments. Conclusion and Outlook. The situation that different LCIA methods result in different answers to the question concerning which detergent type is to be preferred regarding the impact category aquatic ecotoxicity is not satisfactory, unless explicit reasons for the differences are identifiable. This can hamper practical decision support, as LCA practitioners usually will not be in a position to choose the 'right' LCIA method for their specific case. This puts a challenge to the entire OMNIITOX project to develop a method, which finds common ground regarding fate, exposure and effect modelling to overcome the current situation of diverging results and to reflect most realistic conditions.Goal, Scope and Background. The aim of this study has been to come up with recommendations on how to develop a selection method (SM) within the method development research of the OMNIITOX project. An SM is a method for prioritization of chemical emissions to be included in a Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) characterisation, in particular for (eco) toxicological impacts. It is therefore designed for pre-screening to support a characterisation method. The main reason why SMs are needed in the context of LCIA is the high number of chemical emissions that potentially contribute to the impacts on ecosystems and human health. It will often not be feasible to cover all emissions with characterisation factors and, therefore, there exists a need to focus the effort on the most significant chemical emissions in the characterisation step. Until now not all LCA studies include toxicity-related impact categories, and when they do there are typically many gaps. This study covers the only existing methods explicitly designed as SMs (EDIP-selection, Priofactor and CPM-selection), the dominating Chemical Ranking and Scoring (CRS) method in Europe (EURAM) and in the USA (WMPT) that can be adapted for this purpose, as well as methods presenting novel approaches which could be valuable in the development of improved SMs (CART analysis and Hasse diagram technique). Methods. The included methods are described. General guidance principles established for CRS systems are applied to SMs and a set of criteria for good performance of SMs is developed. The included methods are finally evaluated against these criteria. Results and Discussion. Two of the most important performance criteria include providing consistent results relative to the more detailed, associated characterisation methods and the degree of data availability to ensure broader chemical coverage. Applicability to different chemical groups, user friendliness, and transparency are also listed amongst the important criteria. None of the evaluated methods currently fulfil all of the proposed criteria to a degree that excludes the need for development of improved selection methods. Conclusion and Recommendations. For the development of SMs it is recommended that the general principles for CRS systems are taken into account. Furthermore, special attention should be paid to some specific issues, i.e. the emitted amount should be included, data availability should enable broad chemical coverage, and when identifying priority chemicals for the characteri
sation, the developed SM should generate few false positives (chemical emissions classified wrongly as being of high concern) and no (significant) false negatives (classified wrongly as being of low concern) as compared to the associated characterisation method. These recommendations are not only relevant for a stand alone SM, but also valuable when dealing with simple characterisation methods associated with a more detailed characterisation method. Outlook. There are several questions that need to be answered before an optimal SM can be developed, inter alia: Is it optimal to just use simple measured data with high availability or are QSAR estimates of more complex, relevant data better? Which key parameters to include and how? Is a statistical approach, like linear regression of characterisation factors or CART analysis, the best solution?Goal, Scope and Background. The EU 5(th) framework project OMNIITOX will develop models calculating characterisation factors for assessing the potential toxic impacts of chemicals within the framework of LCA. These models will become accessible through a web-based information system. The key objective of the OMNIITOX project is to increase the coverage of substances by such models. In order to reach this objective, simpler models which need less but available data, will have to be developed while maintaining scientific quality. Methods. Experience within the OMNIITOX project has taught that data availability and quality are crucial issues for calculating characterisation factors. Data availability determines whether calculating characterisation factors is possible at all, whereas data quality determines to what extent the resulting characterisation factors are reliable. Today, there is insufficient knowledge and/or resources to have high data availability as well as high data quality and high model quality at the same time. Results. The OMNIITOX project is developing two inter-related models in order to be able to provide LCA impact assessment characterisation factors for toxic releases for as broad a range of chemicals as possible: 1) A base model representing a state-of-the-art multimedia model and 2) a simple model derived from the base model using statistical tools. Discussion. A preliminary decision tree for using the OMNIITOX information system (IS) is presented. The decision tree aims to illustrate how the OMNIITOX IS can assist an LCA practitioner in finding or deriving characterisation factors for use in life cycle impact assessment of toxic releases. Conclusions and Outlook. Data availability and quality are crucial issues when calculating characterisation factors for the toxicity impact categories. The OMNIITOX project is developing a tiered model approach for this. It is foreseen that a first version of the base model will be ready in late summer of 2004, whereas a first version of the simple base model is expected a few months later.Scope and Background. This paper presents the preliminary results from an ongoing feasibility study, investigating potential application of elements from the life cycle assessment (LCA) framework in European chemicals' policy. Many policy areas affect manufacturing, marketing and use of chemicals. This article focuses on the general chemical legislation, especially issues related to regulatory risk assessment and subsequent decisions on risk reduction measures.
 Method. Current and upcoming chemical regulation has been reviewed and empirical knowledge has been gained from an ongoing case study and from dialogues with various stakeholders. Results and Discussion. LCAs are comparative and more holistic in view as compared to chemical risk assessments for regulatory purposes'. LCAs may therefore potentially improve the basis for decisions between alternatives in cases where a risk assessment calls for risk reduction. In this process, LCA results might feed into a socio-economic analysis having similar objectives, but some methodological aspects related to system boundaries need to be sorted out. Life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) of toxic effects has traditionally been inspired by the more regulatory-orientated risk assessment approaches. However, the increasing need for regulatory priority setting and comparative/ cumulative assessments might in the future convey LCIA principles into the regulatory framework. The same underlying databases on inherent properties of chemicals are already applied in both types of assessment. Similarly, data on the use and exposure of chemicals are needed within both risk assessments and LCA, and the methodologies might therefore benefit from a joint 'inventory' database. Outlook. The final outcome of the feasibility study will be an implementation plan suggesting incorporation of core findings in future chemical regulation and related policy areas.Goal, Scope and Background. Waste associated with the manufacture, use, and disposal of electronic products, or e-waste, is a growing threat to the environment. IT procurement professionals can have a positive affect against that threat through careful consideration of the environmental awareness of their vendors. Method. Consideration of three case studies from the City of Seattle illustrates the challenges in gathering information from vendors on their environmentally sustainable practices; the reasons that this information is important; and possible solutions. Conclusions and Recommendations. We owe it to ourselves, our planet and our progeny to encourage sustainable practices in electronics manufacturing, use and recycling. This paper suggests some beginning steps that purchasers of electronics can take toward that end.The goal of the different national and supranational ecolabelling programs is to encourage consumers to choose products which are the least damaging to the environment. It is clear that the involvement of product and service users is essential to the establishment of sustainable consumption patterns. For this reason, ecolabelling must necessarily limit any risks of uncertainty. To this end, labels must take into account all the impacts of a product's life cycle and use a reliable and verifiable evaluation method. In general, the organizations in charge of ecolabelling programs claim that a multi-criteria approach is used to define the exact labelling criteria appropriate for the product categories in question. These organizations generally maintain that their approach is based on the completion of exhaustive and complete life cycle analyses, which take into account all of the impacts caused by a product throughout its life cycle. And yet, the real situation is often far less clear-cut, and these simplified approaches, which tend to reconcile economic realism and methodological coherence, constitute the u
sual procedure for criteria definition. Thus, the procedures involved in criteria development often rely on a 'semi-qualitative' approach to the life cycle which uses both qualitative and quantitative data in order to identify the product's significant stages on the environment. Presently, the ecolabel is a 'non-verifiable expert property' for the consumer. The ecolabel's lack of objectivity in its criteria and its lack of transparency, resulting from non standardized methods whose accuracy cannot be measured, can only damage this sustainable development tool's credibility. In effect, the primary hindrance to ecolabel development lies precisely within this difficulty of finding a compromise between economic feasibility and the scientific and methodological rigor which are indispensable to the label's credibility and veracity.In 1998, the Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) launched a five-year national project entitled 'Development of Life Cycle Impact Assessment for Products' (commonly known as 'the LCA Project'). The purpose of the project is to develop common LCA methodology as well as a highly reliable database that can be shared in Japan. Activities over these five years have resulted in the supply of LCI data on some 250 products. Industrial associations voluntarily provided data. The results of these activities are currently being made available on the Internet on a trial basis in the form of an LCA database. In addition, a method entitled 'Life-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling (LIME)' was developed. It is expected that these results will be widely used in Japan in the future. This paper presents an outline of the results of the research and development that has been conducted in the LCA Project in Japan.Reliability of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) results depends on the availability and quality of Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) data. In order to provide high-quality LCI data for background systems in LCA and to make it applicable to a wider range of fields, harmonization strategies for already existing datasets and databases are required. In view of the high significance of LCI data as a basis of major fields of action within a sustainability strategy, the German Helmholtz Association (HGF), under the leadership of the Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe (FZK) has taken up this issue in its research programme. In 2002, the FZK conducted a preliminary study on 'Quality Assurance and User-oriented Supply of a Life Cycle Inventory Data' funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). Within the framework of this study, a long-term concept for improving the scientific fundamentals and practical use of LCI data was developed in association with external experts. The focus is on establishing a permanent German 'Network on Life Cycle Inventory Data' which will serve as the German information and cooperation platform for all scientific and non-scientific actors in the field of life cycle analysis. This network will integrate expertise on LCA in Germany, harmonise methodology and data, and use the comprehensive expert panel as an efficient basis for further scientific development and practical use of LCA. At the same time, this network will serve as a platform for cooperation on an international level. Current developments address methodological definitions for the initial information infrast
ructure. As a novel element, user needs are differentiated in parallel according to the broad application fields of LCI-data from product declaration to process design. Case studies will be used to define tailored interfaces for the database, since different data quality levels will be encountered.Data acquisition to perform LCA is time and capital consuming. There is already international data about environmental aspects in several processes. This study aims to verify the possibility of adapting international data to Brazilian conditions. Therefore, a Life Cycle Inventory was conducted to compare the use of national and international data for steel used in automobiles. This was done in three steps: objective and scope definition, inventory analysis and interpretation. LCI is a simplification of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as impact assessment is not taken into account. Even so, LCI takes into account all life cycle stages of a product, that is, from its extraction through its deposition. In this study, three phases of the life cycle were considered: steel manufacturing, automobile use and disposal. In the case studied, the amount of steel evaluated was 263 kg, which would be possible to be replaced by other materials in a 1,300 kg automobile. Resources and energy consumption, atmospheric emissions and solid residues production were taken into account within the analysis done. Results show that automobile use and materials manufacturing are responsible for the bulk of energy and resources consumption. Solid residues occur mainly in the discard phase, due to the low level of recycling. Several differences were also achieved between national and international data, which implies the need of environmental databases development.Goal and Scope. The potential environmental impacts associated with two landfill technologies for the treatment of municipal solid waste (MSW), the engineered landfill and the bioreactor landfill, were assessed using the life cycle assessment (LCA) tool. The system boundaries were expanded to include an external energy production function since the landfill gas collected from the bioreactor landfill can be energetically valorized into either electricity or heat; the functional unit was then defined as the stabilization of 600 000 tonnes of MSW and the production of 2.56x10(8) MJ of electricity and 7.81x10(8) MJ of heat. Methods. Only the life cycle stages that presented differences between the two compared options were considered in the study. The four life cycle stages considered in the study cover the landfill cell construction, the daily and closure operations, the leachate and landfill gas associated emissions and the external energy production. The temporal boundary corresponded to the stabilization of the waste and was represented by the time to produce 95% of the calculated landfill gas volume. The potential impacts were evaluated using the EDIP97 method, stopping after the characterization step. Results and Discussion. The inventory phase of the LCA showed that the engineered landfill uses 26% more natural resources and generates 81% more solid wastes throughout its life cycle than the bioreactor landfill. The evaluated impacts, essentially associated with the external energy production and the landfill gas related emissions, are on average 91% higher for the engineered landfill, since for this option 1) no ene
rgy is recovered from the landfill gas and 2) more landfill gas is released untreated after the end of the post-closure monitoring period. The valorization of the landfill gas to electricity or heat showed similar environmental profiles (1% more raw materials and 7% more solid waste for the heat option but 13% more impacts for the electricity option). Conclusion and Recommendations. The methodological choices made during this study, e.g. simplification of the systems by the exclusion of the identical life cycle stages, limit the use of the results to the comparison of the two considered options. The validity of this comparison could however be improved if the systems were placed in the larger context of municipal solid waste management and include activities such as recycling, composting and incineration.Goal, Scope and Background. Green Productivity (GP) is a new paradigm in sustainable manufacturing where resource conservation and waste minimization constitute the strategy in simultaneously enhancing environmental performance and productivity. This productivity approach to the sustainability of industries requires the adoption of clean production technology and the development of appropriate indicators and instruments to measure environmental performance in a continuous improvement strategy that focuses on the manufacturing stage of the product life cycle. The analysis may be expanded to include the entire life cycle with increasing details on impacts, improvement strategies and indicators. Methods. The study proposes a methodology for GP assessment that integrates the essential components of life cycle assessment (LCA) and multicriteria decision analysis specifically the analytic hierarchy process (AHP). LCA provides a systematic and holistic perspective for GP analysis that spans inventory, impact and improvement assessment. The AHP is utilized as a decision framework and valuation tool for impact and improvement assessment to come up with priority weights. Indicators are derived and measured from a streamlined LCA focused on a number of parameters within the gate-to-gate analysis to demonstrate the GP concept in relation to resource utilization and waste minimization. An input-output approach using a suitable material balance in a scenario analysis provides the basis of GP performance measurement. Results and Conclusion. The diagnostic model is applied on a semiconductor assembly/packaging operation. From the streamlined life cycle inventory, impact factors were derived for water resource depletion (WRD), energy resource depletion (ERD), human toxicity-air (HTA), human toxicity-land (HTL), human toxicity-water (HTW), aquatic ecotoxicity (ETA) and terrestrial ecotoxicity (ETT). Valuation of impact factors using the AHP showed the high significance of ETT, HTL, WRD and ERD. This especially reflects the impact of the industry on the solid waste problem as a result of emissions to land associated with human toxicity and ecotoxicity effects and the intensive use of water and energy resources. Using scenario analysis, the effect of implementing a process-based improvement technique on a product-specific operation was determined and the highest values in GP are for energy utilization, water utilization and terrestrial ecotoxicity. Recommendation and Perspective. Expert system technology was explored in developing a diagnostic prototype that
 emulates how human experts diagnose green productivity of manufacturing processes. The aim was to investigate how such a diagnosis could be performed in an intelligent fashion that it is also easily accessible as a decision support for industries. The expert system model will provide flexibility in testing the relationships of environmental performance and productivity parameters as well as in preserving and disseminating valuable human expertise in GP program implementation. This is a continuing research effort that is building the knowledge base for GP assessment. It will include case studies over a wider range or level of detail regarding the impacts and improvement techniques and the other stages of the product life cycle.Goal, Scope and Background. The Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) system has been installed at the biggest lignite-fired power generation plant in Thailand to reduce the large amount of SO, emission. In order to understand the costs and benefits, both in ecological and economic terms, the lignite-fired plant was studied both before and after the installation of the FGD system. The focus of this study is to consider not only the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) outcome but also the Life Cycle Costing (LCC) factors. The results can provide valuable information when selecting appropriate technologies to minimize the negative impact that lignite-fired power plants have on the environment. Methods. The Life Cycle Assessment - Numerical Eco-load Total Standardization (LCA-NETS) system was used to evaluate the impact on the environment of both the lignite-fired plant and the FGD system. Life Cycle Costing (LCC) was used to provide a comparison between alternative before and after installation of FGD. LCC, a powerful analytical tool, examines the total cost, in net present value terms, of a FGD system over its entire service lifetime. Results and Discussion. The results of the study are shown in the eco-load values over the entire life cycle of the lignite-fired plant. Comparative models of the power plant, before and after the installation of the FGD system, are evaluated using the LCA-NETS system. The results indicate that the installation of the FGD system can reduce the acidification problem associated with lignite-fired plants by approximately 97%. The LCC estimation shows the major costs of the FGD system: capital investment, operating and maintenance, and miscellaneous costs. The LCC provides the decision-making information when considering the cost of the FGD system in terms of protecting the environment. Conclusion and Outlook. LCA is an important decision-making tool for environmental policies, especially with regard to the selection of pollution control equipment for lignite-fired plants. Green coal technologies and strategies to reduce the negative impact on the environment are essential to produce more environmentally-friendly power plants with a sustainable future.Background, Aims and Scope. Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) methods can be grouped into two families: classical methods determining impact category indicators at an intermediate position of the impact pathways (e.g. ozone depletion potentials) and damage-oriented methods aiming at more easily interpretable results in the form of damage indicators at the level of the ultimate societal concern (e.g. human health damage). The Life Cycle Initiative, a joint
 project between UNEP1 and SETAC(2), proposes a comprehensive LCA framework to combine these families of methods. The new framework takes a world-wide perspective, so that LCA will progress towards a tool meeting the needs of both developing and developed countries. By a more precise and broadly agreed description of main framework elements, the Life Cycle Initiative expects to provide a common basis for the further development of mutually consistent impact assessment methods. Main Features. Inputs to the LCIA midpoint-damage framework are results of Life Cycle Inventory analyses (LCI). Impact pathways connect the LCI results to the midpoint impact categories with the corresponding indicators, as well as to the damage categories at the level of damages to human health, natural environment, natural resources and man-made environment, via damage indicators. Midpoint impact categories simplify the quantification of these impact pathways where various types of emissions or extractions can be aggregated due to their comparable impact mechanisms. Depending on the available scientific information, impact pathways may be further described up to the level of damage categories by quantitative models, observed pathways or merely by qualitative statements. In the latter case, quantitative modelling may stop at midpoint. A given type of emission may exert damaging effects on multiple damage categories, so that a corresponding number of impact pathways is required. Correspondingly, a given damage category may be affected jointly by various types of emissions or extractions. It is therefore an important task of the Life Cycle Initiative to carefully select damage indicators. The content of the midpoint and of the damage categories is clearly defined, and proposals are made on how to express the extent of environmental damage by suitable indicator quantities. Conclusions and Outlook. The present framework will offer the practitioner the choice to use either midpoint or damage indicators, depending on modelling uncertainty and increase in results interpretability. Due to the collaboration of acknowledged specialists in environmental processes and LCIA around the globe, it is expected that - after a few years of effort - the task forces of the Life Cycle Initiative will provide consistent and operational sets of methods and factors for LCIA in the future.Goal, Scope and Background. The automotive industry has a long history in improving the environmental performance of vehicles - fuel economy and emission improvements, introduction of recycled and renewable materials, etc. The European Union also aims at improving the environmental performance of products by reducing, in particular, waste resulting from End-of-Life Vehicles (ELVs) for example. The European Commission estimates that ELVs contribute to approximately 1% of the total waste in Europe [9]. Other European Union strategies are considering more life cycle aspects, as well as other impacts including resource or climate change. This article is summarizing the results of a European Commission funded project (LIRECAR) that aims at identifying the environmental impacts and relevance for combinations of recycling / recovery and lightweight vehicle design options over the whole life cycle of a vehicle - i.e. manufacturing, use and recycling/recovery. Three, independent and scientific LCA experts reviewed 
the study according to ISO 14040. From the beginning, representatives of all Life Cycle Stakeholders have been involved (European materials & supplier associations, an environmental Non-Governmental Organization, recycler's association). Model and System Definition. The study compared 3 sets of theoretical vehicle weight scenarios: 1000 kg reference (material range of today's end-of-life, mid-sized vehicles produced in the early 1990's) and 2 lightweight scenarios for 100 kg and 250 kg less weight based on reference functions (in terms of comfort, safety, etc.) and a vehicle concept. The scenarios are represented by their material range of a broad range of lightweight strategies of most European car manufacturers. In parallel, three End-of-Life (EOL) scenarios are considered: EOL today and two theoretical extreme scenarios (100% recycling, respectively, 100% recovery of shredder residue fractions that are disposed of today). The technical and economical feasibility of the studied scenarios is not taken into consideration (e.g. 100% recycling is not possible). Results and Discussion. Significant differences between the various, studied weight scenarios were determined in several scenarios for the environmental categories of global warming, ozone depletion, photochemical oxidant creation (summer smog), abiotic resource depletion, and hazardous waste. However, these improvement potentials can be only realized under well defined conditions (e.g. material compositions, specific fuel reduction values and EOL credits) based on case-by-case assessments for improvements over the course of the life cycle. Looking at the studied scenarios, the relative contribution of the EOL phase represents 5% or less of the total life cycle impact for most selected impact categories and scenarios. The EOL technology variations studied do not impact significantly the considered environmental impacts. Exceptions include total waste, as long as stockpile goods (overburden, tailings and ore/coal processing residues) and EOL credits are considered. Conclusions and Recommendations. LIRECAR focuses only on lightweight/recycling, questions whereas other measures (changes in safety or comfort standards, propulsion improvements for COD user behavior) are beyond the scope of the study. The conclusions are also not necessarily transferable to other vehicle concepts. However, for the question of end-of-life options, it can be concluded that LIRECAR cannot support any general recommendation and/or mandatory actions to improve recycling if lightweight is affected. Also, looking at each vehicle, no justification could be found for the general assumption that lightweight and recycling greatly influence the affected environmental dimension (Global Warming Potential or resource depletion and waste, respectively). LIRECAR showed that this general assumption is not true under all analyzed circumstances and not as significant as suggested. Further discussions and product development targets shall not focus on generic targets that define the approach/technology concerned with how to achieve environmental improvement (weight reduction [kg], recycling quota [%]), but on overall life cycle improvement). To enable this case-by-case assessment, exchanges of necessary information with suppliers are especially relevant.Electronic commerce is expected to influence a wide range of supply chain 
systems and thus lead to unidentified environmental impacts. Current studies discussing the impacts have a problem that they arrive at conflicting results or ungeneralisable works. This article addresses the issue of methodology and proposes an assessment model for the resolution of this problem. In the meantime, this article shows that research on the subject of 'Greening supply chains' is in need of a new focus and direction, which involves building a new set of constructs for decision making whose benefits are addressed. Our model, proposed in this paper, represents a meeting point of the need for renewal of this subject, and the need to evaluate large-scale issues such as electronic commerce.Petroleum fuels, which are not sustainable and which contribute substantially to greenhouse gas emissions, power nearly all light-duty vehicles. We review the North American literature on alternative fuels such as natural gas, ethanol from corn and biomass, and hydrogen and electricity from renewable resources, as well as propulsion systems including internal combustion engines, electric motors, and fuel cells. Vehicle characteristics including emissions, safety and consumer attributes such as range and power are examined. Results for greenhouse gas emissions and energy use for the well-to-wheel (fuel production and vehicle operation) aspects of the life cycles of the fuel/vehicle combinations are evaluated. While fuel cells and batteries might some day be attractive, in the near term they cannot replace the internal combustion engine. We focus on ethanol and explore its potential to replace nearly all gasoline used in the United States and Canada. We conclude that ethanol produced from biomass is an attractive near/midterm fuel among those that are sustainable.The paper present the results of Life Cycle Assessment conducted for the spray drying process in lab and industrial scale. The analysis indicates that for the installation working in the industrial conditions, both process and environmental optimisation aims at minimalising energy consumption in the operational phase.The paper presents the main development trends of technological studies and technical - management tasks resulting from Sustainable Development policy when restructurization of domestic chemical industry. The need of integrative activities was shown to be necessary to achieve emission standards according to BAT-the Best Available Techniques for the new plants, with the consideration of regulation of EC policy in trade and application of chemicals and taking into account the procedure of LCA-Life Cycle Analysis of product in technological design.The moisture distribution near the ground surface in and around the Japanese cities of Osaka and Kyoto was investigated. From the analysis of observed data, the atmosphere over the suburban areas between coastal Osaka and inland Kyoto was drier than that over Osaka and Kyoto during the daytime hours. This feature differs from results in previous studies and from expectations based on urban and suburban surface heat budgets. To understand the drying mechanism, numerical experiments were performed, using a simplified geometrical model consisting of a straight coastline, a square urban area on the coast, a square inland urban area, and a plateau mountain surrounding the urban areas. The following main results were obtained. First, suburban 
drying during the daytime was mainly caused by a valley circulation that developed over the surrounding mountain area. In addition, the two heat island circulations that developed over the two urban areas also caused suburban drying. As a consequence, the coexistence of mountain and urban areas caused more notable suburban drying. Second, the amount of suburban drying was greatest when the urban distance was 40-50 km, which is roughly equal to the actual distance between the Osaka and Kyoto urban areas. Last, temporal changes in moisture and those of suspended particulate matter, SO2, and NOx concentrations decreased before the arrival of the sea-breeze front. Thus, it is argued that moisture and pollutants were transported by the two heat island circulations that developed over Osaka and Kyoto and by the valley circulations and then were modified by the sea-breeze circulation.The environmental impact of land-use can be expressed in terms of a change in biodiversity of flora. We present two models that characterize the negative effects of land-use: a model on the basis of species richness; a model on the basis of the rarity of ecosystems and their vascular plants. Each of those models may serve in the EIA (environmental impact assessment) of the urban and rural planning of expanding cities, industrial areas, road infrastructure, etc. Moreover, these models might be applied by Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) practitioners to incorporate the aspect of land-use in the environmental assessment of a specific product design. The results of both models have been applied in practice. Maps of The Netherlands are provided for both models. The map based on the rarity of ecosystems differentiates the best of what experts (biologists and ecologists) define as botanical quality of nature; the methodology is operational in The Netherlands and might be applied to other countries as well, however, detailed botanical information is required. The map based on species richness has a weaker compliance with the botanical quality of nature, however, the model can more easily be applied to a wider area of the world, since indicative data about species richness is available on a global scale. The so called 'eco-costs of land conversion' is proposed as a single indicator, being the marginal costs of prevention (or compensation) of the negative environmental effects on biodiversity caused by change of land-use. These 'eco-costs of land conversion' for the botanical aspects are part of the much broader model of the eco-costs/value ratio, which has recently been published in this journal [Vogtlander et al., Journal of Cleaner Production 2002; 10:57-671]. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an important technique in the successful implementation of a process or product development in the context of environmental sustainability. Attempts have been made to incorporate LCA in public and corporate processes and product related decision-making. The European Union's eco-labeling schemes and the United Kingdom's Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Directive have tried to integrate life cycle thinking with policy making. However, these efforts still have not made LCA an integral part of process and product selection and design. The absence of an easy to use tool for rapid reconnaissance is a basic limitation of the LCA applicati
on. A new life cycle indexing system - LInX - is proposed, which will facilitate the LCA application in process and product evaluation and decision-making. The LInX is comprised of four important sub-indices or attributes - environment, health and safety (EHS), cost, technical feasibility, and socio-political factors. Further, each attribute contains a number of basic parameters, e.g. EHS consists of 11 parameters. Quantification of each basic parameter is performed for the complete life cycle of a proposed process or product. An analytical hierarchy process is used to compute the weights for each basic parameter and sub-indices. A composite process is used to determine the final overall index. This paper explains the methodology for computation of the new indexing system and demonstrates it with an application. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.Life Cycle Assessment is very dependent on data of good quality. LCA data should ideally be accessible, relevant and reliable. Common sources of data for LCA-practitioners are databases of different kinds. The use of the information in databases for LCI introduces an epistemological uncertainty-since the system where the data is to be used (the unit process in question for the LCA) may differ from the system where the data was generated (the unit process in the database). Information about data, metadata, is often used to provide knowledge about the applicability and relevance of data, but the practitioner has limited possibilities to evaluate any differences between the required data and the available data. An analysis is made in this article where the problem is treated from two sides, the compiler of information (the database compiler) and the receiver of information (LCA-practitioner). To structure the relevance aspect of LCI-data, a methodology is suggested where the most frequent LCI-emissions are considered to have three different phases; primary emission mechanism, conversion in process, and end-of-pipe measures. An analysis is made for each of these stages with its governing parameters, which regulates the amount of the emission. A table is presented with all the common LCI emissions with their governing parameters. The methodology enables the practitioner to evaluate differences between unit processes and also gives information about the spread in emission factors between different variants of a unit process. The methodology is then applied to cement production, showing how the knowledge of governing parameters should be handled. A set of questions is compiled which elucidates the epistemological uncertainty for cement production. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The measurement framework of the green productivity (GP) of a product system, or process, and its improvement are discussed. Two types of GP indicators are developed to help understand the practical concept and executive approaches of GP, using environmental management tools such as life cycle assessment (LCA) and total cost assessment (TCA). GP index is defined as the ratio of productivity of a system to its environmental impacts. This index is intended for estimating the GP performance of an existing product or process and comparing it with other equivalents. Specifically, the GP index is a measure of the GP performance of a product system throughout its entire life cycle. The "overall" GP index can 
be divided into a "direct" GP index and an "indirect" GP index which are intended to analyze the GP performances of direct production processes and indirect upstream processes, respectively. For internal managerial decision, GP ratio is developed to select one alternative out of a list of contenders in order to improve the GP performance of an existing system. In addition, GP portfolio is drawn up to check the strengths and weaknesses of alternatives. A case study of a petrochemical company in Korea is provided as an example for illustrating the feasibility of the indicators developed here (GP index and GP ratio) for the measurement of GP and its improvement. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology is sometimes referred to as the science of sustainability, but unlike mature sciences, it has yet to establish reliable modes of inquiry or a uniform framework for dialogue-partly because sustainability is difficult to characterize, and partly because industry-environment interactions are difficult to model quantitatively. A number of sustainability metrics have recently been proposed that partially address the quantification problem, but inevitably oversimplify the problem of sustainability characterization. This paper proposes an overarching taxonomy for classifying the quantitative criteria of sustainability as financial. thermodynamic, environmental, ecological, socio-political or aggregated. Several examples are presented. Pollution potential, which is an environmental metric related to the ideal thermodynamic work (of mixing) per mole required to remove pollutants from the environment, is discussed in particular. However, because no single metric can capture sustainability per se, industrial ecology may be limited to elucidating the trade-offs that exist between different types of complementary (rather than substitutable) criteria. The life cycle of polyurethane foam insulation in freezer applications is presented as a quantitative example of how different environmental criteria can lead to different design recommendations. Lastly, the framework proposed herein suggests a research agenda for industrial ecology, especially regarding the linkages between different measures of sustainability and cross-comparison of the investigative methods found in different sciences related to sustainability. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.Industrial ecology is an emerging concept for the establishment of ecologically sustainable industrial development of industrial zones and estates in China. Optimizing materials and energy flows among facilities within specific regions or industrial ecosystems is a basic industrial ecology strategy. As such, life cycle analysis and management and green supply chain management are related approaches. The Guitang Group, a Chinese sugar complex, has developed an embryonic eco-industrial development by applying an integrated approach to green supply chain management. This paper describes the Guitang Group and its evolving integrated green supply chain management model. After summarizing experiences of the application of the Group's model, the paper analyzes challenges and then introduces possible solutions. Some conclusions are developed on the basis of this analysis. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) is a technique that is used worldwide by clients and their des
ign team to assess the impact of their projects on the environment. The main advantage of LCA is in supporting decision making with quantitative data. LCA inventories can be either fully developed or streamlined. Fully developed LCAs are time-consuming and costly to prepare. Streamlined LCAs can be used as an effective decision-making tool when considering environmental performance during the design process, but with a loss of inventory completeness. Acknowledging the advantages and disadvantages of both types of LCA, this paper proposes a hybrid LCA method that uses input-output data to fill in those gaps routinely left in conventional LCA inventories. The developed hybrid LCA method is demonstrated using a life-cycle energy study of eight different road designs, including vehicle manufacture, maintenance, replacement, and operation. It was found that the road construction process was initially the most important, but in the long run the manufacture, use, and maintenance of vehicles using the road (which are an inevitable consequence of road construction) became paramount.The life cycle assessment of the mobile phone housing in Motorola (China) Electronics Ltd. was carried out, in which materials flows and environmental emissions based on a basic production scheme were analyzed and assessed. In the manufacturing stage, such primary processes as polycarbonate molding and surface painting are included, whereas different surface finishing technologies like normal painting, electroplate, IMID and VDM etc. were assessed. The results showed that housing decoration plays a significant role within the housing life cycle. The most significant environmental impact from housing production is the photochemical ozone formation potential. Environmental impacts of different decoration techniques varied widely, for example, the electroplating technique is more environmentally friendly than VDM. VDM consumes much more energy and raw material. In addition, the results of two alternative scenarios of dematerialization showed that material flow analysis and assessment is very important and valuable in selecting an environmentally friendly process.LIFE CYCLE COSTING.Eco-efficiency analysis according to BASF is a tool for investigating environmental and economic impacts of plastics over their whole life cycle. The procedure of economic analysis is determined by process or product comparison as well as the sort of products analysed. Alongside life cycle assessment, life cycle costing is becoming the second pillar of determining sustainability.Paper is concerned with methodology for design of environmentally sustainable structural systems. It is proposed that whole life performance should be analysed in terms of environmental cost. Due to extensive uncertainties, associated with properties and deterioration models, constrained probabilistic approach is proposed for this life-cycle analysis.The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method is widely used to assess the environmental impacts generated during the entire life cycles of products. The traditional process-based LCA (P-LCA), however, has some weaknesses. One of them is incompleteness resulting from the omission of environmental loads on the higher upstream orders of product system. This problem is called "truncation error." There are some relatively new initiatives to combine the conventional P-LCA with the econom
ic Input Output Analysis (IOA) in one general approach defined as a hybrid LCA. It allows solving different problems, even those which seemed to be unsolvable until now.This study aimed to present a clear definition of life cycle analysis, LCA, and bring perspective to practical applications of LCA. A comparison was made between Mazout and natural gas as a fuel oil in electrical power station. It was also clarified which of the two systems (Mazout/natural gas) had least environmental impact. The amounts of Mazout, equivalent to natural gas, which required producing 100 MW of electricity and their impact on the environment were determined. Abu-Qir power station was selected as a case study because of its dual use of mazout and natural gas as a fuel for boilers. The data were gathered starting from extraction of crude oil, its distillations, until it becomes Mazout, and then transportation to power stations, which burn it to produce electricity. The same procedure was applied to natural gas: extraction, purification, and then pumping to power station to produce energy. The inputs of energy and water were calculated systematically using ton/fuel oil as a functional unit. The output emission was calculated also as gas and water emission. The final conclusion of the study revealed that the total energy required producing 100 MW of electricity from Mazout was 23.4-t fuel oil. While natural gas needs 20-t, fuel oil from the extraction of natural gas until it reaches the boilers.This case study is a presentation of systematic development of an awareness and communication multimedia package in solid waste management that was produced for Egyptian technical secondary schools. Representative teachers were very much involved in the design and pretesting of the technical content of the package. They even suggested and influenced the format of the produced materials. The awareness and education materials, to be included in the package, were classified into four main sections: (a) Environmental concepts: basic definitions, environmental spheres, identification of the environmental systems, (b) Environmental issues: international, national, and local, (c) Solid waste management: sources of waste, life cycle analysis, recycling, technological aspects, environmental auditing, legislation for solid waste management, and (d) Case studies: including specific success stories on solid waste management in various parts of Egypt. The threading skeleton of this package was a set of 25 extra-curricula activities. These were specially designed to help clarify the environmental concepts, convey the messages for the environmental protection, and identify the required attitudes to help sustainable development. The multimedia package is composed of an activity book equipped by concept papers and fact sheets, a set of transparencies for overhead projector (or power point illustrations), a video film that stresses the economic and environmental benefits of recycling, and a compact disc that contains all the components of the package. It is interesting to note that while developing this package with the technical help of the Academy of Educational Development, the basic criteria for excellence in environmental education and communication were fully observed. The feedback from the pilot schools was collected to monitor the implementation and impact of this package. The pack
age was adopted by the Ministry of Education and was distributed to technical secondary schools in Egypt.Biobased resources have played a major role throughout human history. Even the earliest humans learned to Use these resources to make shelters, cook food, construct tools, make clothing, keep records and produce weapons. Collectively, society learned very early the great advantages of a resource that was widely distributed, multifunctional, strong, easy to work, aesthetic, biodegradable and renewable. Composites made of biobased resources are being "rediscovered" in the 21(st) century. Many concepts are circulating in the press, at scientific meetings, in discussions and on web new sites all over the world on the advantages of using a "green", "low cost", "biodegradable "renewable", "recyclable", and "sustainable" resource to produce composites. While these are powerful concepts, they are often misapplied, misused, and misunderstood. These are not just "buzz" concepts that are used in a grant to get funding. They are part of the reason biobased composites are getting more attention in the materials world. The largest single potential growth in the use of biobased resources is in the composites sector. More specifically, in housing components. Issues to be considered in this sector include land use. resource supply, carbon sequestration, reduced energy use, utilization of mixed resources, recycling, competing materials, durability, life cycle assessment, quality assurance, codes and standards, tradition, marketing, and appropriate use.The potential environmental burdens over the whole life cycle of printing and writing paper produced in Portugal from Eucalyptus globulus were quantified, using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. The main stages considered in the life cycle were: forest, pulp production, paper production, final disposal, energy production, chemical production and transports. The results suggest that pulp production processes have an important contribution to water emissions, resulting in a major contribution to eutrophication. Besides, it plays a major role in renewable energy consumption. Energy production in the grid, printing and writing paper production and transports contribute significantly to air emissions and to non-renewable energy consumption, and, consequently to global warming, acidification and non-renewable resource depletion. Wastepaper landfilling assumes the predominant role in photochemical oxidant formation.Information and communication technology (ICT) services are attracting great interest because they have the potential to overcome many of the complications of conventional systems and to save money and/or time. Moreover, ICT services are expected to reduce burdens on the social environment. We have reported the environmental impact of some ICT services and clarified the potency of our approach to its reduction. However, ICT services are said to generate rebound effects such as inducing greater demand for merchandise or new activities. These rebound effects can lead to new environmental impacts. This paper presents a new concept for the evaluation of ICT environmental rebound effects. This concept includes model analysis, which was based on a user questionnaire, and the LCA method. As an example this method was applied to a videoconference. The environmental rebound effect was estimated to be sma
ller than the total environmental burden. We believe this approach provides a convenient method for evaluating the total environmental impact of ICT services.There is a growing awareness of the business value of sustainable practices. Life cycle tools can be used to design and continually improve future products as well as provide bottom line cost savings, increase the recycled content and recyclability of products, and reduce or eliminate the hazardous substance content in products. Data collection and management procedures and tools as well as advanced life cycle technologies have been developed and implemented to meet the global market demands to increase the recycled content and recyclability and reduce the hazardous substance content in products. European legislation such as the End of Life Vehicle (ELV), Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and the Restriction of use of certain Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directives, as well as strict domestic and international labeling and reporting requirements have prompted automotive and electronics manufacturers to aggressively evaluate their products and processes to determine the recyclability and recycled content of their products and identify the presence of regulated and restricted substances. The automotive industry was the first to be faced with the challenge of meeting End of Life (EOL) requirements with the ELV Directive. Similarly, the electronics industry must now develop strategies to meet the demands of WEEE and RoHS and improve their product recyclability, eliminate the presence of certain hazardous substances, and implement take-back programs in a cost-effective manner. Companies that are proactive in implementing data collection and management procedures throughout their corporation and the supply chain will be better positioned to meet EOL reporting requirements, design future products that have less impact on the environment, workers, and the global community, and potentially provide an economic advantage. Strategic planning that includes tactical tools for data collection and management, supplier management, and life cycle analysis (LCA) can help move a company toward sustainability. Two tools are presented in this paper.An evaluation method to assess recycling potential considering both the environmental and economic aspects was suggested for the material recovered from waste home appliances. Life cycle assessment (LCA) method was applied to obtain the environmental score (S-Env), and the actual value & static economic model was used to obtain the economic score (S-Env). The S-Env of recycled glass and circuit board showed the highest value (11.97), followed by copper (9.37), iron (6.77), and plastic (3.67). The S-Env of recycled copper showed the highest value (6.97), followed by aluminum (5.23), iron (5.15), plastic (4.82), and glass and circuit board (3.50). The recycling potentials for the recyclable materials were calculated by weighting S-Env and S-Env with the factors obtained from analytical hierarchy process (AHP) method. As the result, the recycling potential of copper was the highest, followed by iron, glass, and circuit board, and aluminum. This calculated data and methodology would provide a useful data for decision makers and product designers in the design for environment (DfE).Using hybrid assessment that combines process and economic input-output
 methods, the total energy and fossil fuels used in producing a desktop computer with 17-inch CRT monitor are estimated at 7,320 megajoules (MJ) and 290 kg respectively. This indicates that the network of industries for manufacturing computers is energy intensive: the ratio of fossil fuel use to product weight for a computer is 12, an order of magnitude larger than the factor of 1-2 for many other manufactured goods. In contrast with many home appliances, life cycle energy use of a computer is dominated by production (83%) as opposed to operation (17%). The yearly life cycle cost of owning a computer is about 3, 000 MJ/year, half again that of a refrigerator, a much larger appliance that uses far more electricity in operation. The short lifespan of computers and the variety of computing needs of users suggests that extension of lifespan, for example by promptly reselling to users who need less computing power, is a promising approach to mitigating environmental impacts.A methodology to perform a hybrid approach to evaluate semiconductor life cycle impacts is developed. This methodology uses (i) bottom-up process models and data to develop inventories for semiconductor manufacturing, and for specialty semiconductor chemicals items and (ii) an economic input-output method for generic inventory items. The approach attempts to overcome several semiconductor LCA challenges and is illustrated through a case study in life cycle environmental impacts of an interconnect module in a logic device.Existing methodologies for conducting an environmental impact assessment of alternative technologies have some limitations: some cannot detect the full range of important impact categories involved in all of the life cycle stages; some cannot focus on major important impacts at the early stages; some lack the mechanism to transparently reflect the values of different stakeholders. This paper presents a new approach for environmental impact assessment in a multi-attribute framework by using a modified Quality Function Deployment (QFD) methodology. We have applied this hybrid methodology to a previously published Life Cycle Assessment on computer displays. Our focus is on the evaluation and comparison of life-cycle environmental impacts, cost and performance attributes for cathode ray tubes (CRTs) and liquid crystal displays (LCDs). From a methodological aspect, our approach is aimed at considering all of the life cycle stages and several important impact categories with coherent treatment of the basic data in a matrix-based QFD structure. Concurrently, some statistical methods and different sets of models (such as Median Ranks, Prioritization Matrix and Analytical Hierarchy Process) are incorporated into the weighting and rating process. This allows us to elaborate the specific assessment steps and to provide a valid and systematic analysis. Our objective is to provide a feasible and easily accessible methodology so that display technology selection matrices can be developed on the basis of different stakeholders' values. The limitations and challenges associated with this methodology are also identified and discussed in this paper.This paper describes a life-cycle assessment (LCA) of an efficient lighting system for commercial buildings using a distributed sensor network. This lighting system is controlled by intelligent software that uses miniaturized wire
less networked sensors - motes - for sensing and actuation. The mote network is an experimental wireless sensor network that aims to be smaller, more efficient, less expensive and more versatile than other network alternatives. The LCA described in this paper shows the new lighting system has the potential to achieve environmental benefits in comparison to existing systems. The environmental impacts of the proposed intelligent lighting system are 18 to 344 times smaller than those of the conventional lighting system for the different environmental impact categories considered: acidification, global warming potential, carcinogenicity, non-cancer potential, ecotoxicity, photochemical smog, eutrophication, ozone depletion potential, and fossil fuel depletion. This case study also provides insight for design choices in the sensor network, such as what type of battery should be used or which materials should be minimized.The growing complexity of integrated circuits and increasing component density place higher requirements for raw material and clean room standards, which demand significant amounts of energy. In spite of these developments, semiconductor facilities managed reducing their energy intensity measured per product unit. At the same time, the impact of increasing circuit integration on upstream life cycle stages, such as chemical manufacturing, is not clear. Due to a lack of data, most of the existing LCA studies do not include chemicals-related process into their system boundaries, which leads to an incomplete picture of semiconductor environmental aspects. The increasing material purity requirements may contribute to shifting the centre of manufacturing-related environmental impacts from circuit fabrication to raw material production stages. The article points to insufficient knowledge of environmental issues related to ultra pure chemical manufacturing. The problem is illustrated by an example of energy demands for silicon chain and wet chemicals. The paper discusses the feasibility of using material price as a proxy for production energy intensity and proposes a framework for collecting process related energy data. The author suggests that by mapping the patterns of chemical usage and focusing on high-grade materials consumed in large volumes it is possible to reduce data collection efforts and improve the existing energy estimates.This paper introduces the concept of using sustainability as a fundamental measure of supply line risk and hence business continuity risk for companies. A novel approach that integrates the Sustainability Target Method (STM) and Economic Input-Output Life Cycle Analysis (EIO-LCA) has been developed to evaluate supply line sustainability and business environmental risk. The objective is to assess sustainability and risk associated with various classifications of supply line commodities. The EIO-LCA tool is used to quantify the environmental impact or 'footprint' for fifteen industry sectors that contribute to the United Technologies Corporation (UTC) supply line, specifically the immediate sectors from which production parts are obtained. Each commodity sector consists of one or more SIC codes, which can be cross referenced to Commerce Sector and NASIC designations. The STM links environmental impact with economic value by uniquely defining Resource Productivity (RP) and Eco-Efficiency (EE). In essence,
 it requires that the economic value of products and services be proportionally not less than the environmental burden they cause. This provides EE = 100% as a practical sustainability target for individual businesses that will lead to a sustainable economy. The STM is used to evaluate commodity sectors for risk by deriving the risk-adjusted sector Eco-Efficiency, EE(R). This relates naturally to EE and provides a target threshold for risk that is analogous to the sustainability target, allowing unique insight into the relationship of sustainability and business risk.With the increased attention to the significant impact on the environment, consideration of the extent to which building impacts the environment is becoming a topical issue. In this paper, the emphasis was given to the development of a quantitative life-cycle environmental impact of building assessment system termed BEPAS (Building Environmental Performance Analysis System). BEPAS assesses quantitatively the environmental impact in the whole life cycle. BEPAS divides the model into three functions - facility operation, building material and site layout. By this system, two synthesis indices-pollution strength and economic pollution strength can be obtained, which can help the designers to optimize the design that strike a balance between environmental and economic performance This paper also presents a case to illustrate how BEPAS works.With the improvement of residential environment, human beings are paying attention to environmental problems. This paper analyzed the relationship between residential construction and environment, and explored detailed environmental protection measures that should be taken in a life cycle analysis (LCA) of residential construction based on some principals. Then, objective system of environmental impact factors is proposed. Finally, impacts on the environment in the life cycle are presented for developers to construct the human-oriented community.In this paper, a brief introduction of limitations has been give to the assessment of environmental impact (EIA) of buildings. Emphasis was given to the on the development of quantitative assessment model of environmental impact (EI) for building during planning and designing phases, the assessment procedures, and the availability of data and parameters. Although what we argue in this paper is only a framework for EIA, however, it still can offer us a general overview how to applying the life-cycle assessment (LCA) theory into lifetime EIA of building.This paper analyses six typical heating systems including thermoelectric (coal), hydroelectric, nuclear electric, coal burning, natural gas burning and solar heating system with Cumulative Energy, Cumulative Exergy and Emergy analysis theory based on Life Cycle Assessment. Resource utilization of each heating system is computed and analyzed. By comparing evaluation indexes of each analysis approach, this paper illuminates that more comprehensive and more objective analysis or evaluation can be obtained using Emergy Analysis.A research route was established on an evaluation system of the waste heat recovery in this paper. By the combination of the life cycle analysis and the theory of thermoeconomics, a series of corresponding evaluating parameters were chosen, which could be used to evaluate the waste heat recovery system in the aspects of technology, eco
nomics and environment. Finally, the research route was applied to the hot method phosphoric acid production system as a case study.Materials research from the view of industries is given from the standpoint of a steelmaking researcher in the steel industry. The aim of materials research in the industry is to develop value added, preferably "only one" products. One of the present directions of value addition is environment conscious products. Materials research is not only targeted to materials themselves but also total solutions for customers and collaborative research between the industry and its customers is frequently conducted. Control of the steelmaking process was for yield increase and energy saving in the past, but it is now for adding value to products. Shape control of inclusions was intended to prevent their harmful effects on products, but has come to be used in enhancing materials performance by, for example, improving toughness through ferrite grain refinement by intra granular precipitation of ferrite on controlled oxides. Prevention of surface defects is also not necessarily only for the increase of yield and the elimination of surface scurfing, but might also be directed to achieving the attractive surface quality attained by the unscurfed first solidified fine layer. It is also considered to be important to realize good LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) indexes for the products to occupy a competitive position in "green procurement" by customers, by energy saving and emission reduction in materials production.When reviewing an environmentally conscious product or process, life cycle assessment (LCA) has been proven a good tool in evaluating alternative options. It is important to know to what extent the outcome of an LCA is affected by uncertainties, as it may be helpful for decision makers in better judging the significance of differences between options. However, conventional inventory data model uses averages among identified factories in the scope of LCA. This data model cannot incorporate the effects of uncertainty into the LCA result because the information of variance is lost. In this paper, a new model for inventory data and method of inventory analysis is presented. This data model reflects the differences of input/output per unit production between comparable factories which produce the same product into the LCA results, without publishing individual data from industry. This paper uses a case study which illustrates the selection of chemical recycling system for PET bottles and shows how the model enables decision makers to consider the alternatives with uncertainty.UNIDO Cleaner Production Programme has established more than 30 National Cleaner Production Centres and Programmes in developing countries, with the main focus on fostering the implementation of Cleaner Production practices, mainly through environmentally sound technologies and productivity increase. When addressing companies, the services delivered by the Centres generally start from the conduction of an in-plant assessment, for the definition of the CP potentials. The Uganda Cleaner Production Centre, within the Eco-Benefits programme, trained the company staff in the conduction of their in-plant assessments and in the collection and evaluation of environmental data. This information, which originally has been used to identify the CP measures to be imp
lemented in order to improve the companies' environmental performance, has been elaborated in order to go one step forward. Environmental, production and economic indicators stimulated the company to rethink and redesign its products, in order to achieve reduction of costs and emissions, together with the customers' satisfaction. Besides the well-established data collection aiming at the conduction of in-plant assessment, the NCPCs and NCPPs started to define data collection procedures for life cycle analysis and for the calculation of macroeconomic indicators.Reliability of LCA results crucially depends on the availability and quality of LCI data. In order to provide high-quality LCI data for background systems in LCA but also for a larger variety of possible application fields harmonization strategies for already existing data sets and data bases are required. In view of the high significance of life cycle inventory data as a basis of major fields of action within a sustainability strategy, the German Helmholtz Association under the leadership of the Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe (FZK) has taken up this issue in its research programme. In 2002, the FZK conducted a preliminary study on "Quality Assurance and User-oriented Supply of a Life Cycle Inventory Data" funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). Within the framework of this study, a long-term conception for improving the scientific fundamentals and practical use of life cycle inventory data was developed together with external experts. The focus is on establishing a permanent German "Network on Life Cycle Inventory Data". This network shall integrate expertise on life cycle assessment in Germany. it shall harmonise methodology and data, and it shall use the comprehensive expert panel as an efficient basis of further scientific development and practical use of LCA. At the same time, this network shall serve as a platform for cooperation on an international level. Current developments address methodological definitions for the initial information infrastructure. As a novel element user needs are differentiated in parallel according to the broad application fields of LCI-data from product declaration to process design. Case studies will be used to define tailored interfaces for the data base which have to encounter different quality levels.Over the last decade, enormous strides have been made in creating engineered cementitious composites (ECC) with extreme tensile ductility, on the order of several hundred times that of normal concrete or fiber reinforced concrete (FRC). Current ECC investigations include load carrying structural members in new infrastructure systems, as well as for repair and retrofitting of existing structures. ECC design has been built on the paradigm of the relationships between material microstructures, processing, material properties, and performance. This paradigm has worked very well in creating various versions of ECC that can be processed by self-consolidated casting, spraying, and extrusion. This paper describes preliminary results of an initial attempt at creating green ECCs, ECCs that maintain the tensile ductility characteristics, but which also incorporate sustainability considerations in the design of these materials for infrastructure applications. Sustainable material design integrates microstructure tailoring with life cycle an
alysis based on social, environmental, and economic (SEE) indicators. The framework of green ECC development is described. Some preliminary experimental results of the effect of cement substitution and fiber substitution with industrial by-products on the mechanical properties are reported. It is demonstrated that the concept of green ECC for sustainable infrastructures is feasible, although an extensive amount of research remains ahead.In many countries, there is a growing amount of deteriorating concrete infrastructures that not only affect the productivity of the society, but also has a great impact on resources, environment and human safety. The poor and uncontrolled durability with repairs and maintenance of all these concrete structures are consuming much energy and resources and are producing a heavy environmental burden and large quantities of waste. Therefore, the increasing amount of repairs and maintenance of concrete structures is not only a question of technical performance and economy, but also a question of impact to the environment. In the present paper, the framework and methodology for quantifying the environmental burden of various repair materials and systems for maintenance of concrete structures are briefly outlined. This includes materials and energy consumption, waste generation and emission to the environment.Society is increasingly concerned about the implications of manufactured products for the environment, public health, and future costs. How does a product affect global warming, smog, fossil fuel depletion, and human toxicity? How about its costs over time? Building for Environmental and Economic Sustainability (BEES) addresses these questions by measuring the life-cycle environmental and economic performance of construction products. Used by thousands of designers worldwide, BEES measures environmental performance using the life-cycle assessment approach specified in the ISO 14040 series of standards. All stages in the life of a product are analyzed raw material acquisition, manufacture, transportation, installation, use, and recycling and waste management. Twelve environmental impacts are assessed: global warming, acidification, eutrophication, fossil fuel depletion, indoor air quality, habitat alteration, si-nog, ozone depletion, ecological toxicity, human health, criteria air pollutants, and water intake. Economic performance is measured using the American Society for Testing and Materials, International (ASTM) standard life-cycle cost method, which covers the costs of initial investment, replacement, operation, maintenance and repair, and disposal. Environmental performance and economic performance are combined into an overall performance measure using the ASTM standard for Multiattribute Decision Analysis. The paper will explain the BEES approach and illustrate its application to alternative concrete products with and without supplementary cementitious materials.Material selection is an important part of bridge design and is usually determined by the economic criteria of the design project. As more environmental problems have attracted the attention of the construction industry, there is a need to design our bridges to be more environmental friendly. The "green design" concept requires an assessment of the entire life cycle of a structural system in order to identify the system that has the least enviro
nmental impact. In this project, two bridge alternatives that have the same location and function but are made of different construction materials are studied. Activities associated with the life cycle of the bridge are examined and a life cycle inventory analysis is performed concentrating on the boundary definition for this project. From the results of this study, the life cycle analysis induces a conflict in bridge design which indicates that the actually built steel bridge has higher environmental effects than that of the concrete bridge. However, results from a LCA study should always be carefully evaluated due to the limitations of the analysis model and it is of great importance that a standardized procedure and guideline for "sustainable thinking in bridge design" should be established and incorporated in the future.Personal Development, which is the most important issue of the whole society, which has the relation with Gross Sustainable Development (GSD) has been discussed in this project. Actual ways of Sustainable development, which is nothing but cradle to grave life cycle analysis, should be started from ecological resources to zero waste. The research work focus on scientific analysis of the personal development related to the total sustainability approach. A model based approach has been super imposed for the idea of personal development What is the obstacle of the personal development, what are the stages, how can it be calculated, and what are their stages? Not only that valuation method of GSD and personal development is matter of concerned here. Cradle to grave life cycle analysis is required to be all society personally developed and for a complete green peace. - is the hide idea of this research work.According to the characteristics of green product, evaluation indices system on product green degree is established. To the disadvantages of general data envelopment analysis (DEA) models in flexible weights and un-prioritizing all products, a ranking DEA model with preference information is presented to facilitate green degree evaluation. The model is achieved by applying weight constraints and introducing an ideal decision making unit in general DEA models. The weight constraints are determined with the help of fuzzy numbers, which is more accurate than that with crisp numbers. Finally, an example is given to illustrate feasibility and validity of the presented method for product green degree evaluation.Disposable expanded polystyrene (EPS) fast food container is one of the main causes of "white pollution. " A study on the life cycle of EPS fast food containers has been carried out using life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. The LCA results show that the environmental impacts of EPS fast food container are mostly originated from production stage, and the main impacts are resources damage. A comparison study on waste disposal scenarios shows that collecting and recycling has less environmental impacts than incinerating or landfilling of EPS fast food container. Some suggestions on eco-design of EPS fast food container are put forward.Design for environment (DFE) or Design For Cost (DFC) is one of the branches in DFX. Both of them concern some product life cycle factors in design. The former emphasis is greenness or environmental protection; the later emphasis is life cycle cost (LCC). Using DFE, LCC must be considered
. Using DFC, environmental protection must be also considered. By analysis of the relationship between DFE and DFC, the method that integrated them can be found. Namely, LCC estimation methods can be used in DFE; Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) can be used in DFC; the other way is that design is evaluated using Design Compatibility Analysis (DCA) in DFX.Recently, emulsion polymers have grown in interest. On the one hand, environmental pressures are jeopardizing the use of hazardous volatile compounds, favoring the industrial practice of emulsion polymerization. On the other hand, emulsion polymerization is long known for its outstanding capacity to produce products with a myriad of properties. Emulsion polymers are the base of a well-established industry. Synthetic rubbers alone account for the production of over 8000 million tonnes per year of emulsion polymers. It is widely recognized how technical progresses on the polymerization field can benefit companies. Nevertheless, not much has been said about the environmental impact of those progresses. This work intends to shed light into this promising field, using the principle of the inventory step of the life cycle assessment analysis. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Drainage characteristics have a significant effect on pavement performance. Pavements with poor subsurface drainage properties prematurely exhibit distress and have higher life-cycle cost. Shorter service life and higher maintenance cost are some of the reasons for the higher lifecycle cost. It has been proved in the last 20 years that subsurface drainage increases the pavement service life and reduces its life-cycle cost. A case study demonstrates and quantifies the benefits of providing subsurface drainage through reduction of moisture in daylighted base layers of flexible pavements. The effect of higher base course moisture content on the pavement in situ structural capacity was assessed through the analysis of deflection tests performed with the falling weight deflectometer. In this analysis, a structural adequacy index was used to assess the pavement structural service life. This information was then fed into a life-cycle analysis module to determine the effect of the higher moisture content on the pavement life-cycle cost. An increase in base course moisture content from 16% to 45% resulted in the reduction of pavement service life from 13 to 7 years. For a 40-year period, this translates to a three-fold increase in life-cycle cost for a 250-ft-long pavement section. Reducing moisture retention through various means, thereby improving the subsurface drainage quality of flexible pavement systems, can achieve substantial long-term savings.Remediation of contaminated sites provides a cleaner local environment, but may also have negative environmental impacts on the local, regional, and global scales. Methods based on Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) are designed to take the negative effects into consideration when deciding how to treat a site, and to improve the environmental efficiency of remediation techniques. This paper reviews nine case studies that use LCA tools to evaluate alternative remediation techniques to summarize the findings of methodologies and results. The methodologies were found to differ in the limitation of the LCA for space, time and secondary processes. This strongly influenced the results. Bioreme
diation was the worst when the secondary process of producing electron acceptors was included; otherwise it was the best. The choice of impact categories heavily affected the results. Inclusion of land use was especially important in site remediation studies. In general, the negative impact of site remediation was due to energy consumption. For excavation combined with ex-situ treatment, the transport of contaminated soil to the treatment facility or landfill required the most energy. For in-situ treatment of soil and groundwater pumping consumed the most energy. It is proposed that different methods be applied to the same site.In this paper a simplified Life Cycle Assessment for the evaluation of environmental impacts of horticultural production systems is presented. Two production systems with different production intensities (outdoor cropping, protected cultivation in a greenhouse) have been investigated with respect to the environmental impact associated with these production systems. In the open field production system the transport processes on-field and field-to-farm are contributing most to the environmental impact. In closed greenhouse production systems the lighting and heating processes are dominating the environmental impact. The system analysis performed in this study allows for the identification of those process steps in horticultural production that are major contributors to environmental impact. Therefore, the results can help the growers to improve the environmental performance of their production system.Sustainability, people, planet and profit are currently modern issues. Our societies are asking for products and services that are produced and delivered in sustainable ways. However the concept of sustainability is very broad and has to be made more concrete at this time. With a top-down/bottom-up approach the concept of sustainability, a set of sustainabitity aspects can be identified that have the support of the various stakeholders and that can be determined with the use of indicators. The availability of information/data and the organisation of information to use indicators is a main aspect in the determination of sustainability aspects. Analyses of chain information systems showed that these systems provide several linkages that can be helpful in the assessment of sustainability. However, chain information systems are currently most applicable for determination of the environmental dimension of sustainability and readily linked to a product, much like an environmental Life Cycle Assessment. To realize such a combination, information in chain information systems have to be transformed, by model or database, to create the right information output. The social dimension is not very easily determined; it is more concerned with processes instead of products. As such the determination of social sustainability requires additional research.This paper compares the sensitivity in the operation of conventional and alternatively fuelled Public Service Vehicles (PSVs) in operation across Merseyside; Each fuel is compared on a life cycle assessment (LCA) basis, with the addition of landfill gas (LFG) as a viable alternative. On a complete life cycle basis, LFG powered vehicles compare favourably with gas-powered vehicles and generally cause less pollution than the liquid-fuel powered vehicles, with electric vehicles generally pro
ducing the least pollution overall. In the majority of cases, the sensitivity analysis has revealed that the most significant stage in the life cycles of each fuel and vehicle is the end-use (fuel combustion) stage. In some cases this stage alone contributes to 90% of the total life cycle emissions. Daily and annual changes in vehicle operation have a large influence on the amount of pollution released into the atmosphere.The purpose of this paper is to review the types of models that are currently being used in the area of municipal waste management and to highlight some major shortcomings of these models. Most of the municipal waste models identified in the literature are decision support models and for the purposes of this research, are divided into three categories-those based on cost benefit analysis, those based on life cycle assessment and those based on multicriteria decision making. Shortcomings of current waste management models include that they are concerned with refinements of the evaluation steps (e.g. stage four of AHP or the improvement of weight allocations in ELECTRE) rather than addressing the decision making process itself. In addition, while many models recognise that for a waste management model to be sustainable, it must consider environmental, economic and social aspects, no model examined considered all three aspects together in the application of the model. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Incinerator emissions still represent an important issue of public environmental concern. The application of Life Cycle Assessment to a municipal solid waste (MSW) incinerator is an important instrument for the identification of the main environmental impacts on the entire ecosystem. Beside this, an Integrated Environmental Monitoring System can be applied in order to understand the most direct contamination in the surrounding territory. This approach can integrate ordinary chemical monitoring instruments, together with biomonitoring methodologies, and can give an interesting understanding of the interaction of the various pollutants with the environmental matrices. The application of both tools provided useful results: by using LCA it was possible to understand that the incineration process, besides reducing the amount of waste which must be landfilled, decreases the environmental impact related to some categories, due to energy recovery which avoids the consumption of non-renewable fuels; by monitoring, many interesting correlations were found between heavy metals (chosen as environmental indicators) both in gas emissions and in natural matrices in the surroundings (in particular, depositions). The joint employment of these two instruments can lead researchers and decision makers to understand the most critical steps of the whole incineration process, indicating the greatest global, regional environmental and local impacts.Taiwan, an island with dense population but limited resources, bears a heavy environmental burden. Although industries in Taiwan have been booming for decades, the escalation of waste generation has never ceased and will profoundly affect the lifestyles and the living standards for generations to come. Therefore, how to use resources wisely, to achieve a sustainable society, has become an ever more serious issue that is concerning both the government and the people of Taiwan. As the natural resour
ces are waning and the costs of garbage disposal is constantly rising over time, waste disposal policies have shifted from traditional disposal methods, such as sanitary landfills and waste incineration, to new methods, such as minimization at the source, sorting, separation of dry and wet garbage, pre-treatment, and transferring of garbage from remote areas. Moreover, with the policies of front-end prevention (restricting the use of plastic shopping bags and plastic disposable dishes) and the back-end per-bag trash collection fee, households are rewarded to reduce the amount of garbage. Communities are also encouraged to set up garbage self-disposal systems or other flexible and diversified methods, which are aiming to ease the pressure on the end-of-pipe treatment and induce recycling and reuse of materials. With the principle of "extended producer responsibility," businesses and institutions are required to work on the "green design" and "life cycle analysis," and to set up an "environment management system" to meet the future needs of environmental protection from international markets. The government will also assist the Center for the Exchange of Industrial Waste Information and the promotion of environmental management systems, and subsidize the R&D of the new environmental technologies. All of these measures will be taken to help businesses establish corporate images and thereby increase their competitiveness in the international markets. Although the adoption and the implementation of the strategies and policies of "zero waste" will encounter certain obstacles, we should still actively strive to establish concrete policies and objectives for campaigns, strict law enforcement and the encouragement of innovation and trials. What we will need to achieve this will be: understanding and support of the general public, the cooperation of private sectors, as well as the open-mindedness of the public sectors. Our natural resources are so scarce and precious that we must work in tandem with the global trend to achieve a "zero waste" world.Japan legislated the Containers and Packaging Recycling Law in 1995; the law was put into effect gradually and became effective totally in 2000. In this law, each municipality can choose how many items they collect for recycling, so that not all the municipalities in Japan collect all containers and packaging still now. In particular, big cities whose populations are more than I million can not collect all items, because the cost for recycling all items is too much and they do not have appropriate recycling routes. This study examines the effect on the reduction of the amount of waste and on the environmental effects by the method of Material Flow Analysis and Life Cycle Assessment, through Nagoya city practices. Nagoya city has a population of more than 2 million. In the city, the law has been in force since 2000. Nagoya city is only one big city that collects all items of containers and packaging in Japan. So it is important to study Nagoya practice to evaluate the success of the law. Accordingly, the surveys of material flow and discharge amount Of CO2 and NOx were made in the years 1998 and 2001, then each year's data was compared. By the study, it is observed that the amount of municipal waste discharge reduced by more than 266,000 ton and the amount of landfill reduced to almost half after enforceme
nt of the law. On the other hand, the amount of collected containers and packaging gained 63,002 ton, and it multiplied about 3 times. Considering the environmental impact from the waste management system of Nagoya city including containers and packaging recycling, the amount of total discharge Of CO2 and NOx reduced by more than 34%. Therefore, the effects on the environment obviously improved. The law has accelerated the separating of containers and packaging from the waste going to landfill, and it not only has reduced the amount of waste but also has changed the contents of waste going for incinerating, causing more reduction of landfill. As a result, it clearly shows that the recycling based on the law has succeeded in reducing both the amount of waste going to landfill sites and the environmental effects.Persistent polar pollutants (P3) are difficult to degrade in standard waste water treatment plants. As a result, they end up in the effluent and are emitted to the surface water. In some areas, this problem is aggravated through "closed loop recycling", causing concentrations of P3 in surface water to build up over time. This could cause violation of (future) EU regulations. In the P-THREE project, various alternative waste water treatment techniques are investigated regarding their effectiveness in eliminating these substances, especially membrane bioreactor treatment and advanced oxidation processes, MBR and AOP. The integrated systems analysis which is the subject of this paper assesses these techniques in a broader systems context: (1) the life-cycle of the P3, (2) the life cycle of the WWTPs, and (3) the WWTP life cycle costs. The paper traces the emergence of urban environmental history first in the United States and since the 1990s increasingly also in Europe. It identifies the development of large technical networks which provide cities with water and energy and which serve to take problematic Substances and waste out of urban areas as a central theme of this new subfield where scholars from urban history, environmental history and history of technology converge. The concepts of 'path dependence' and 'urban metabolism' are introduced as useful heuristic devices to assess long-term effects of these infrastructures in a holistic manner. The paper shows that the implementation of networks and related household technologies was accompanied by comprehensive processes of social and cultural adaptation which fundamentally altered the attitudes and behavioural patterns towards resource use. Lessons of urban environmental history are seen in providing long-term horizons to current debates over urban technologies and their environmental consequences.The metabolism of a city can be seen as a process of transforming all the materials and commodities for sustaining the city's economic activity. This paper attempts to incorporate the analysis of emergy and material flow for investigating Macao's urban sustainability in the light of Macao's environment and economy. In order to evaluate the contribution of material flows to the ecological economic system, emergy (spelled with an M; previously known as embodied emergy) evaluation is incorporated in this paper. Emergy evaluation of urban metabolism is analyzed for measuring the effect of Macao's sustainability. The purchased emergy from outside Macao is 160 x 10(20) sej in 2003, while the out
put emergy is about 196 x 10(20) sej. Tourism is the biggest industry of Macao, it bring 5.82 billion US dollars to Macao economy, the en/dollar emery equals to 119.7 x 10(20) sej, it is the most important source to sustain the balance of the urban emergy flows. With the analysis of the tourism in Macao and its contribution to Macao urban development, a new indicator (the ratio of tourism emery contributions to emery impact) is proposed. Through use of the indicators of the emery, the sustainability of Macao is discussed.Considering the city as a peculiar kind of ecosystem, this paper explores the potential of a metabolic approach to urban development interpretation, proposing an enhanced metabolic urban model. This new metabolic model strongly focuses on the influence that institutional activities have on urban sustainability. Such activities - like planning and other decisional processes - are considered as an important feedback of urban dynamics. This last updating aims at connecting the conceptual modelling to urban governance.
 The global mean surface temperature has already increased by 0.6 +/- 0.2 degrees C over the last century, and warming in Korea is approximately twice as large as the global average. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has concluded that the majority of warming over the past 50 years could be attributed to human activities (IPCC, 2001a). In addition, the global surface temperature is expected to increase by 1.4 to 5.8 degrees C depending on the greenhouse gas emission scenarios during the 21st century Climate change resulting from increased greenhouse gas concentrations has the potential to harm societies and ecosystems. Reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases and their concentration in the atmosphere will reduce the degree and likelihood of significant adverse conditions due to the anticipated climate change. Mitigation policy has generally been the primary focus of public attention and policy efforts on climate change. However, some degree of climate change is inevitable due to the combination of continued increases in emissions and the inertia of the global climate system. Adaptation actions and strategies are needed for a complementary approach to mitigation. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) currently addresses vulnerability and adaptation in the context of climate change negotiations and in future adaptation may be an important element of work under the Kyoto Protocol. There are several on-going programs to develop effective adaptation strategies and their implementation. But in general, many other countries are still on an initiating stage. The climate change science programs of the United States, Japan, England, and Germany are initiated to understand the current status of climate change science and adaptation researches in the developed countries. In this study, we propose the improvement on systems in policy and research aspects to effectively perform the necessary functions for development of nation-wide adaptation measures and their implementation. In policy aspect, the Korean Panel on Climate Change (KPCC) is introduced as a coordinating mechanism between government organizations related with climate change science, impact assessment and adaptation. Also in research aspect, there is a strong consensus on the need for construction of a national network on climate change research as trans-disciplinary research network.Tourism in island states is vulnerable to climate change because it may result in detrimental changes in relation to extreme events, sea level rise, transport and Communication interruption. This study analyses adaptation to climate change by tourist resorts in Fiji, as well as their potential to reduce climate change through reductions ill carbon dioxide emissions. Interviews, site visitations, and an accommodation survey were undertaken. Many operators already prepare for climate-related events and therefore adapt to potential impacts resulting from climate change. Reducing emissions is not important to operators; however, decreasing energy costs for economic reasons is practised. Recommendations for further initiatives are made and synergies between the adaptation and mitigation approaches are explored. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.We assessed the influence of control for air pollution and respiratory epidemics on associations between apparent 
temperature (AT) and daily mortality in Mexico City and Monterrey. Poisson regressions were fit to mortality among all ages, children (ages 0-14 years) and the elderly (ages 65 years). Predictors included mean daily AT, season, day of week and public holidays for the base model. Respiratory epidemics and air pollution (particulate matter <10 mm in aerodynamic diameter and O-3) were added singly and then jointly for a fully adjusted model. Percent changes in mortality were calculated for days of relatively extreme temperatures [cold (10-11C) for both cities and heat (35-36C) for Monterrey], compared to days at the overall mean temperature in each city (15C in Mexico City, 25C in Monterrey). In Mexico City, total mortality increased 12.4% [95% confidence interval (CI) 10.5%, 14.5%] on cold days (fully adjusted). Among children, the adjusted association was similar [10.9% (95% CI: 5.4%, 16.7%)], but without control for pollution and epidemics, was nearly twice as large [19.7% (95% CI: 13.9%, 25.9)]. In Monterrey, the fully adjusted heat effect for all deaths was 18.7% (95% CI: 11.7%, 26.1%), a third lower than the unadjusted estimate; the heat effect was lower among children [5.5% (95% CI: -10.1%, 23.8%)]. Cold had a similar effect on all-age mortality as in Mexico City [11.7% (95% CI: 3.7%, 20.3%)]. Responses of the elderly differed little from all-ages responses in both cities. Associations between weather and health persisted even with control for air pollution and respiratory epidemics in two Mexican cities, but risk assessments and climate change adaptation programs are best informed by analyses that account for these potential confounders.The articles in this IDS Bulletin present insights from the Linking Climate Adaptation (LCA) Project that aimed to ensure that poor people benefit from adaptation processes, rather than bearing greater burdens by, for example, having the risks caused by climate change shifted in their direction. The key research aim of the LCA Project was to determine what kind of procedural and institutional frameworks are needed to ensure that locally determined adaptation needs are linked "upwards" to national and international policy and institutional structures. The overview brings together policy relevant insights on this question whilst also explaining the conceptual underpinnings of the project, focusing on the nature of vulnerability and adaptation and policy processes to support community-led adaptation. The key conclusions are that climate change is a serious, ongoing threat to development and will add burdens to those who are already poor and vulnerable, and that climate vulnerability analysis should be incorporated systematically into the three main policy and institutional frameworks relevant for adaptation: development, disaster relief and climate change. Ways of fostering conceptual, operational and institutional linkages between these three domains are described, focusing on how these can help communities take centre stage in conducting vulnerability analysis and implementation to enhance their long-term capacities for adaptation.Increased temperature, floods, droughts, extreme events and changes in precipitation pose additional risks for developing countries and vulnerable communities striving to alleviate poverty and to achieve sustainable development. Knowledge and experience of adapting to climati
c conditions has been built up over a millennia by communities in many parts of the world, including developing countries, often on the basis of experimentation initiated by communities. The synthesis brings together the main insights and conclusions from case studies describing examples of successful community-led interventions in six countries: China, India, Bangladesh, Senegal, Kenya and Zimbabwe. The climate impacts studied include "headline-grabbing" extreme events, such as national floods, and quieter forms of climatic disaster such as long-term aridity/drought, temperature increase and wind-related land degradation. The synthesis examines the roles played by formal and informal institutions, policy champions, donors, knowledge and research in decreasing vulnerabilities and supporting community-led adaptation to climate change.This article provides a brief overview of the rationale, functioning and future plans of the Linking Climate Adaptation Network which was one of the final components; of the DFID-funded Linking Climate Adaptation (LCA) Project. The core objective for the Network was to assist communities and adaptation experts share theoretical, policy and experiential knowledge to support community-led adaptation in developing countries. For many reasons, communities are not well connected to formal scientific and policy processes. Knowledge system approaches that analyse how knowledge and information is generated, shared, negotiated and transformed into policy partly explain why the knowledge, preferences and perspectives of the poor are not fully taken into account. Allowing geographically dispersed communities with fewer resources to communicate better "upwards" with those engaged in formal scientific and policy responses was thus considered an important objective of the LCA Project. This article sets out how this objective was achieved through the LCA Network by explaining the rationale for the Network, its current operation and plans for its further elaboration.Apart from the case studies, an additional output of the Linking Climate Adaptation (LCA) Project was to identify the longer-term research agenda needed to support community-led adaptation. One aim of sharing this agenda here is to catalyse discussions among a wider group active in the climate change, development and disaster/humanitarian relief communities about how best to support community-led adaptation. As set out in the Conceptual Overview in this IDS Bulletin, one of the main conclusions of the LCA Project is to suggest strengthening research, policy and operational linkages between these three, currently quite separate, communities. The selection and formulation of research questions reflects a judgement on the part of the authors. The questions are broadly defined to allow elaboration, challenges, re-framings and add-ons, as we may have neglected issues outside our frame of focus: how community-led adaptation in vulnerable countries can be supported through the generation, dissemination and use of research. For convenience, the research agenda is structured around three overarching issues: (1) the sources, nature and dynamics of vulnerability, (2) the costs and benefits of adaptation, and (3) integration of climate change adaptation into disaster risk reduction and development. A separate concluding section sets out cross-cutting methodological issues tha
t are particularly germane to how future adaptation research should be conducted, by whom and across what time frames.Globally we face serious challenges from the effects of climate change. The causal link between global warming and increased greenhouse gas emissions is well established. Carbon dioxide levels are at a higher level than at any time in the past 750 000 years at least, and it is too late to stop further warming and consequent impacts on UK and global societies. Here I summarize the latest scientific evidence for anthropogenic global warming and outline strategies for adapting to its impacts and mitigating the effects in the longer term.1. Climate change is recognized as a major threat to the survival of species and integrity of ecosystems world-wide. Although considerable research has focused on climate impacts, relatively little work to date has been conducted on the practical application of strategies for adapting to climate change. Adaptation strategies should aim to increase the flexibility in management of vulnerable ecosystems, enhance the inherent adaptability of species and ecosystem processes, and reduce trends in environmental and social pressures that increase vulnerability to climate variability. 2. Knowledge of the specific attributes of climate change likely to impact on species or habitats is central to any adaptive management strategy. Temperature is not the only climate variable likely to change as a result of anthropogenic increases in greenhouse gases. In some regions changes in precipitation, relative humidity, radiation, wind speed and/or potential evapotranspiration may be more marked than for temperature. 3. Uncertainty exists in the response of species and ecosystems to a given climate scenario. While climate will have a direct impact on the performance of many species, for others impacts will be indirect and result from changes in the spatiotemporal availability of natural resources. In addition, mutualistic and antagonistic interactions among species will mediate both the indirect and direct effects of climate change. 4. Approaches to predict species' responses to climate change have tended to address either changes in abundance with time or in spatial distribution. While correlative models may provide a good indication of climate change impacts on abundance, greater understanding is generated by models incorporating aspects of life history, intra- and interspecific competition and predation. Models are especially sensitive to the uncertainty inherent in future climate predictions, the complexity of species' interactions and the difficulties in parameterizing dispersal functions. Model outputs that have not been appropriately validated with real data should be treated with caution. 5. Synthesis and applications. While climate impacts may be severe, they are often exacerbated by current management practices, such as the construction of sea defences, flood management and fire exclusion. In many cases adaptation approaches geared to safeguard economic interests run contrary to options for biodiversity conservation. Increased environmental variability implies lower sustainable harvest rates and increased risks of population collapse. Climate change may significantly reduce habitat suitability and may threaten species with limited dispersal ability. In these cases, well-planned species translocations may
 prove a better option than management attempts to increase landscape connectivity. Mathematical models, long-term population studies, natural experiments and the exploitation of natural environmental gradients provide a sound basis for further understanding the consequences of climate change.Future climate change will affect society's ability to use forest resources. We take account of climate in forest management and this will help us adapt to the effects of climate change on forests. However, society will have to adjust to how forests adapt by changing expectations for the use of forest resources because management can only influence the timing and direction of forest adaptation at selected locations. There will be benefits as well as loses and an important component of adaptation will be balancing values. Adaptation options to respond to impacts on the timber supply in Canada for the next 50 to 100 years are limited mainly to forest protection and wood utilisation because these forests are already in the ground. Adaptation through reforestation will focus on commercial tree species. It is important to start developing adaptation strategies now. These include assessing forest vulnerability to climate change, revising expectations of forest use, determining research and educational needs, development of forest policies to facilitate adaptation, and determining when to implement responses. Government agencies should take the lead in creating an environment to foster adaptation in forestry and in developing the necessary information required to respond.Protected areas arc the most common and most important strategy for biodiversity conservation and are called for under the United Nations' Convention on Biological Diversity. However, most protected areas have been designed to represent (and in theory protect for perpetuity) specific natural features, species and ecological communities in-situ, and have not taken into account potential shifts in ecosystem distribution and composition that could be induced by global climatic change. This paper provides an overview of the policy and planning implications of climate change for protected areas in Canada, summarizes a portfolio of climate change adaptation options that have been discussed in the conservation literature and by conservation professionals and provides a perspective on what is needed for the conservation community in Canada to move forward on responding to the threat posed by climate change.Issues of equity and justice are high on international agendas dealing with the impacts of global climate change. But what are the implications of climate change for equity and justice amongst vulnerable groups at local and sub-national levels? We ask this question for three reasons: (a) there is a considerable literature suggesting that the poorest and most vulnerable groups will disproportionately experience the negative effects of 21st century climate change; (b) such changes are likely to impact significantly on developing world countries, where natural-resource dependency is high; and (c) international conventions increasingly recognise the need to centrally engage resource stakeholders in agendas in order to achieve their desired aims, as part of more holistic approaches to sustainable development. These issues however have implications for distributive and procedural justice, particularly 
when considered within the efforts of the UNFCCC. The issues are examined through an evaluation of key criteria relating to climate change scenarios and vulnerability in the developing world, and second through two southern African case studies that explore the ways in which livelihoods are differentially impacted by (i) inequitable natural-resource use policies, (ii) community-based natural-resource management programmes. Finally, we consider the placement of climate change amongst the package of factors affecting equity in natural-resource use, and whether this placement creates a case for considering climate change as 'special' amongst livelihood disturbing factors in the developing world. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The article examines the role institutions play in climate adaptation in Norway. Using examples from two municipalities in the context of institutional responses to floods, we find, first, that the institutional framework for flood management in Norway gives weak incentives for proactive local flood management. Second, when strong local political and economic interests coincide with national level willingness to pay and provide support, measures are often carried out rapidly at the expense of weaker environmental interests. Third, we find that new perspectives on flood management are more apparent at the national than the municipal level, as new perspectives are filtered by local power structures. The findings have important implications for vulnerability and adaptation to climate change in terms of policy options and the local level as the optimal level for adaptation. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The typical categories for measuring national adaptive capacity to climate change include a nation's wealth, technology, education, information, skills, infrastructure, access to resources, and management capabilities. Resulting rankings predictably mirror more general rankings of economic development, such as the Human Development Index. This approach is incomplete since it does not consider the normative or motivational context of adaptation. For what purpose or toward what goal does a nation aspire, and in that context, what is its adaptive capacity? This paper posits 11 possible national socio-political goals that fall into the three categories of teleological legitimacy, procedural legitimacy, and norm-based decision rules. A model that sorts nations in terms of adaptive capacity based on national socio-political aspirations is presented. While the aspiration of maximizing summed utility matches typical existing rankings, alternative aspirations, including contractarian liberalism, technocratic management, and dictatorial/religious rule alter the rankings. An example describes how this research can potentially inform how priorities are set for international assistance for climate change adaptation. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The most recent climate change predictions for the UK indicate a warming of between 2 and 5 degrees C by the end of this century, with drier summers and wetter winters also anticipated across the majority of the country. Changes are predicted to be more extreme in the southern half of the UK, where severe summer droughts will become commonplace. Although rising atmospheric CO2 levels are likely to increase productivity through 'fertilizing' photosynthesis, wa
ter limitation in southern England is likely to lead to an overall reduction in growth and increase in drought-induced mortality. Incorporation of, the climate change scenarios within the GIS model Ecological Site Classification indicates that in isolation, the effects of climate change will result in significant changes in species suitability. Under current definitions the majority of native broadleaf species are predicted to become unsuitable for commercial timber production in southern England. Genetic variability in local native populations may enable a degree of adaptation. Existing trials of ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) suggest that the best performing provenances are those from regions with a climate similar to that of the trial site. The selection of a provenance for climate change adaptation should be from a region with a current climate well matched to a planting site's predicted climate of the future. Climate matching analysis indicates that coastal areas of western France experience a climate similar to that predicted for southern England by 2050, while the more extreme scenarios predict climates better matched to the Mediterranean region at high elevation by the end of the century. The scale of climate change predictions indicates that, in southern England, native broadleaf species may be unsuitable for timber production on some soils. The planting of non-native species may need to be considered to maintain woodland cover and ensure a viable hardwood timber industry.Seasonal climate forecasts provide probabilistic information on future climate on time-scales of two to three months. Where this information is not presently used it is difficult to evaluate the impact it might have. In order to justify disseminating the information to marginal groups it is important that the potential impact of the forecast is explored so that the negative and positive effects are at least partially appreciated before use of the information is widely promoted. We use an agent-based social simulation model, based on empirical evidence from field work in Lesotho, to assess the impact of using seasonal forecasts among smallholder farmers. The impact of using the forecast depends on the agents' initial household characteristics, what options they choose in responding to the forecast and the trust they place in the forecast (which in turn depends on their ability to learn and to follow their neighbours). Interaction of climate, crop productivity and social factors determines how much household-agents benefit or lose, evaluated in terms of crop yields and likelihood of exhausting food storage. Adoption of the forecast has the potential to decrease starvation among marginal household-agents but poor forecasts may do more harm than good. This work suggests that if forecasts are not correct more than 60-70% of the time, then they are unlikely to benefit poor farmers. Poor forecasts, or forecasts that fail badly, when they do fail, lead to longer adoption timescales for forecast use. Further investigation into the impact of the forecast at the village level is encouraged before dissemination is actively pursued without appreciating potential impacts. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Typical problem areas associated with weather-protective flashing are identified. based on a comprehensive investigation of building damage cases in Norway. A total of
 175 assignment reports associated with damaged flashing for the period between 1963 and 2001 are analysed. The investigation clearly shows that certain faults and deficiencies are recurring items. Windowsill/weatherboard flashings comprise as much as 41% of the building damage cases associated with weather-protective flashing. Damage in connection with parapet flashing comprises 27% of all cases included in this investigation. With few exceptions, instances of damage are located in Norway's coastal areas. Existing flashing solutions in the Norwegian Building Research Institute's Building Research Design Sheets have been further developed, based on the results from the analysis. Improved high-performance flashing solutions are presented for a number of typical problem areas. An illustrated summary of problems frequently encountered with different flashing variants is also presented. Finally, recommended best-practice flashing solutions for a number of typical problem areas are provided. The results will be implemented in the Building Research Design Sheets. and will also be used as a basis for the carrying out of new field studies and laboratory investigations.Climate has always been changing, is changing, and will continue to change. Since the 1960s, however, the pace of change of greenhouse gas concentrations, resulting radiative forcing, and climatic response has been, and will continue to be, more rapid than previously known in geological history. As a result, biomes, species distributions, hydrology, and the cryosphere will undergo profound changes. Protected areas management cannot contribute significantly to mitigation of this issue, but it can help the natural world adapt to it and help educate society about its causes and consequences. I propose a range of actions for consideration by park managers, organized under the acronym ALARM: Awareness of staff, Leading by example, Active ecosystem management, Research, and Monitoring. I counsel for adjusting park boundaries but not for moving parks in pursuit of migrating biomes, manipulating park resources to provide buffers or insurance against natural disasters, and modifying natural region boundaries where they guide park establishment policy.The linkages between climate change and sustainable development are multiple and profound. Nonetheless, their respective policy regimes have so far evolved along parallel, if not competing, paths. What is lacking to date is a detailed conceptual understanding of the practicability of their integration through cross-sectoral policies and programmes. We propose a synergistic adaptive capacity (SAC) framework that places adaptive capacity and equity at the centre of current policy debates. This framework, based on social vulnerability as a linking element between climate change adaptation and poverty reduction, goes beyond current attempts to 'mainstream' adaptation and mitigation into national development priorities. We outline guidelines on how to operationalize the SAC framework and, at the end, define the role of the EU in promoting and implementing these synergies within the post-2012 climate policy regime.This article reviews the European Union's stance and policies on climate change adaptation and argues that developing a coherent long-term European strategy on climate change post-2012 will require the European Union to focus more strongly o
n adaptation issues than has hitherto been the case. It suggests that the EU should examine the dissonance between its prescriptions for integrating adaptation within the EU with its prescriptions to developing countries to mainstream adaptation. The EU should avoid a carrot-and-stick approach to adaptation funding and should focus on identifying common institutional and learning challenges with developing countries.This article sets out a series of rationales for public policy related to adaptation to the impacts of climatic change in the EU. It begins by arguing that both mitigation and adaptation are necessary parts of a coordinated policy response to the problem of climatic change, However, the 'problem structure' of adaptation is significantly different from that of mitigation. For instance, adaptation may generate private benefits that are likely to be experienced over the short term, relative to benefits associated with the impacts of mitigation actions which are public and experienced over the longer term. This divergence influences public policy rationales for adaptation and poses challenges for the integration of mitigation and adaptation in climate policies. Five key challenges facing climate adaptation are identified, and these are used as a basis for proposing rationales for policy action on climate adaptation. These relate to: information provision and research; early warning and disaster relief, facilitating adaptation options; regulating the distributional impacts of adaptation; and regulating infrastructures. The article concludes by arguing that the real integration problem for adaptation policy relates to how it is embedded in sectoral policies such as agriculture and transport, rather than how to achieve integration with mitigation policies.Climate change adaptation and mitigation decisions made by governments are usually taken in different policy domains. At the individual level however, adaptation and mitigation activities are undertaken together as part of the management of risk and resources. We propose that a useful starting point to develop a national climate policy is to understand what societal response might mean in practice. First we frame the set of responses at the national policy level as a trade off between investment in the development and diffusion of new technology, and investment in encouraging and enabling society to change its behaviour and or adopt the new technology. We argue that these are the pertinent trade-offs, rather than those usually posited between climate change mitigation and adaptation. The preference for a policy response that focuses more on technological innovation rather than one that focuses on changing social behaviour will be influenced by the capacity of different societies to change their greenhouse gas emissions; by perceived vulnerability to climate impacts; and by capacity to modify social behaviour and physical environment. Starting with this complete vision of response options should enable policy makers to re-evaluate the risk environment and the set of response options available to them. From here, policy makers should consider who is responsible for making climate response decisions and when actions should be taken. Institutional arrangements dictate social and political acceptability of different policies, they structure worldviews, and they determine the provision of
 resources for investment in technological innovation and social change. The importance of focussing on the timing of the response is emphasised to maximise the potential for adjustments through social learning and institutional change at different policy scales. We argue that the ability to respond to climate change is both enabled and constrained by social and technological conditions. The ability of society to respond to climate change and the need for technological change for both decarbonisation and for dealing with surprise in general, are central to concepts of sustainable development. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Adaptation to climate change and mitigation of climate change are policy substitutes, as both reduce the impacts of climate change. Adaptation and mitigation should therefore be analysed together, as they indeed are, albeit in a rudimentary way, in cost-benefit analyses of emission abatement. However, adaptation and mitigation are done by different people operating at different spatial and temporal scales. This hampers analysis of the trade-offs between adaptation and mitigation. An exception is facilitative adaptation (enhancing adaptive capacity), which, like mitigation, requires long-term policies at macro level. Facilitative adaptation and mitigation not only both reduce impacts, but they also compete for resources. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Climate change presents a risk to the composition, health, and vitality of Canada's forests and forest sector. Effects may be either negative or positive, and will interact in complex ways over many spatial and temporal scales depending on such factors as physical geography, forest type, and forest management practices. Given the apparent vulnerability of forests and the forest sector to climate change, it is prudent that forest and forest-based community managers begin to develop adaptive strategies to minimize the risks and maximize the benefits of climate change. A flexible planning framework that incorporates key principles of structured decision-making and risk management is presented as a practical way to integrate climate change adaptation into forest management planning.Within the Collaborative Research Centre 389 ACACIA (Arid Climate, Adaptation and Cultural Innovation in Africa), interdisciplinary investigations were carried Out in the Great Sand Sea of Egypt and in the Farafra Sand Sea during four expeditions from 1996 to 2002. The middle sections of both Sand Seas, analysed in this study, consist of Pleistocene megadunes (draa) and Holocene dunes (silk) of comparable dimensions and ages. There exist however, differences in the human occupation during the Holocene climatic optimum: Whereas in the Great Sand Sea important prehistoric sites are situated in the vicinity of playa remnants, no comparable traces were found in the Farafra Sand Sea, in spite of its close proximity to the ancient oases and the NileValley. As a main reason, the lower land-use potential in the Farafra Sand Sea, which is located farther to the north, is suggested. In addition to less favourable edaphic conditions, the amount of precipitation during the Holocene climatic optimum, here seems to have been insufficient for playa formation in the interdraa corridors.Agricultural activity has always included,adaptation to a number of diverse stresses and opportunities-eleme
nts that continue influencing developments in the agri-food sector. Climate and weather conditions are a good example of factors that require on-going adaptation. With climate change they take on even more significance. Based oil data from Canadian producers, this article identifies several climate and weather risk adaptation strategies currently in use and notes their close links to sustainable agriculture practices. The article concludes that the mutually supportive relationship between sustainable agriculture and climate change adaptation could be used to justify more government support for sustainable agriculture policies and programs.The second version of the modified TOMGRO model was used to simulate the production of a tomato crop in 8 hypothetical greenhouse adaptations in the Bogota Plateau; near to the equator and at 2650 m above sea level. An inflatable polyethylene tube, a thermal screen, heating and CO2 fertilisation were evaluated. With these strategies a range of average temperatures between 14.7 and 20.0 degrees C was calculated, using some basic assumptions that were deduced from literature and from previous experiments. The maximum productivity and gross income increased as the average greenhouse temperature increased, despite small decreases in greenhouse transmissivity due to the installation of a PE tube or climate screen. The maximum productivity without CO2 fertilisation was obtained in a treatment heated to maintain a minimum temperature of 18 degrees C, resulting in a fruit yield of 41.7 kg center dot m(-2) for a 300-day growth period. For each climate treatment, a combination of planting density and fruit pruning can be selected to obtain the desired average fruit weight in a range of nearly 25 g, without affecting gross income. Only a small effect of CO2 fertilisation was detected, due to the opening of the greenhouse during most of the day. The simulation model showed reasonable results, in accordance to data from the growers, and can thus be used for calculating other hypothetical climate adaptation strategies and evaluate micro-climates in the high altitude tropics.Current climate variability and anticipated climate change challenge our water systems and our financial resources. The sharing of economic losses due to weather related hazards and the sharing of costs that result from protecting lives and property take place in different forms, but are currently insufficient. In this paper we discuss three different rationales for financing disaster losses through public and private arrangements, as well as options for financing adaptation, with a special focus on water management. We propose that financial arrangements for risk sharing and climate change adaptation should be reconsidered, in a more structured approach, to be able to deal with both disaster losses and the costs that arise because of climate change adaptation, e.g. for water management, in both developing and developed countries. The global distribution of tropospheric ozone (O-3) depends on the emission of precursors, chemistry, and transport. For small perturbations to emissions, the global radiative forcing resulting from changes in O-3 can be expressed as a sum of forcings from emission changes in different regions. Tropospheric O-3 is considered in present climate policies only through the inclusion of indirect effect of CH4 on radiative forc
ing through its impact on O-3 concentrations. The short-lived O-3 precursors (NOx, CO, and NMHCs) are not directly included in the Kyoto Protocol or any similar climate mitigation agreement. In this study, we quantify the global radiative forcing resulting from a marginal reduction (10%) in anthropogenic emissions of NOx alone from nine geographic regions and a combined marginal reduction in NOx, CO, and NMHCs emissions from three regions. We simulate, using the global chemistry transport model MOZART-2, the change in the distribution of global O-3 resulting from these emission reductions. In addition to the short-term reduction in O-3, these emission reductions also increase CH4 concentrations (by decreasing OH); this increase in CH4 in turn counteracts part of the initial reduction in O-3 concentrations. We calculate the global radiative forcing resulting from the regional emission reductions, accounting for changes in both O-3 and CH4. Our results show that changes in O-3 production and resulting distribution depend strongly on the geographical location of the reduction in precursor emissions. We find that the global O-3 distribution and radiative forcing are most sensitive to changes in precursor emissions from tropical regions and least sensitive to changes from midlatitude and high-latitude regions. Changes in CH4 and O-3 concentrations resulting from NOx emission reductions alone produce offsetting changes in radiative forcing, leaving a small positive residual forcing (warming) for all regions. In contrast, for combined reductions of anthropogenic emissions of NOx, CO, and NMHCs, changes in O-3 and CH4 concentrations result in a net negative radiative forcing (cooling). Thus we conclude that simultaneous reductions of CO, NMHCs, and NOx lead to a net reduction in radiative forcing due to resulting changes in tropospheric O-3 and CH4 while reductions in NOx emissions alone do not.The global mean surface temperature has already increased by 0.6 +/- 0.2 degrees C over the last century, and warming in Korea is approximately twice as large as the global average. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has concluded that the majority of warming over the past 50 years could be attributed to human activities (IPCC, 2001a). In addition, the global surface temperature is expected to increase by 1.4 to 5.8 degrees C depending on the greenhouse gas emission scenarios during the 21st century Climate change resulting from increased greenhouse gas concentrations has the potential to harm societies and ecosystems. Reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases and their concentration in the atmosphere will reduce the degree and likelihood of significant adverse conditions due to the anticipated climate change. Mitigation policy has generally been the primary focus of public attention and policy efforts on climate change. However, some degree of climate change is inevitable due to the combination of continued increases in emissions and the inertia of the global climate system. Adaptation actions and strategies are needed for a complementary approach to mitigation. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) currently addresses vulnerability and adaptation in the context of climate change negotiations and in future adaptation may be an important element of work under the Kyoto Protocol. There are several on-going pr
ograms to develop effective adaptation strategies and their implementation. But in general, many other countries are still on an initiating stage. The climate change science programs of the United States, Japan, England, and Germany are initiated to understand the current status of climate change science and adaptation researches in the developed countries. In this study, we propose the improvement on systems in policy and research aspects to effectively perform the necessary functions for development of nation-wide adaptation measures and their implementation. In policy aspect, the Korean Panel on Climate Change (KPCC) is introduced as a coordinating mechanism between government organizations related with climate change science, impact assessment and adaptation. Also in research aspect, there is a strong consensus on the need for construction of a national network on climate change research as trans-disciplinary research network.The last few years have witnessed important advances in our understanding of time preference and social discounting. In particular, several rationales for the use of time-varying social discount rates have emerged. These rationales range from the ad hoc to the formal, with some founded solely in economic theory while others reflect principles of intergenerational equity. While these advances are to be applauded, the practitioner is left with a confusing array of rationales and the sense that almost any discount rate can be justified. This paper draws together these different strands and provides a critical review of past and present contributions to this literature. In addition to this we highlight some of the problems with employing DDRs in the decision-making process, the most pressing of which may be time inconsistency. We clarify their practical implications, and potential pitfalls, of the more credible rationales and argue that some approaches popular in environmental economics literature are ill-conceived. Finally, we illustrate the impact of different approaches by examining global warming and nuclear power investment. This includes an application and extension of Newell and Pizer ['Discounting the benefits of climate change mitigation: how much do uncertain rates increase valuations?' Journal of Environmental Economics and Management 46 (2003) 52] to UK interest rate data.The Swiss National Centre of Competence in Research on Climate aims to explore the predictability, variability, and risk of climate change. The Paul Scherrer Institute, which is involved in this program, uses integrated assessment models to simulate policies for climate-change mitigation under uncertainty. We report here selected results of the model for evaluating the regional and global effects (MERGEs) of greenhouse-gas emissions with endogenous technological learning (ETL), known as MERGE-ETL. The novelty of the approach is the application of an heuristic algorithm to solve the non-linear and non-convex MERGE problem where 'learning-by-doing' is adopted for a set of energy technologies. The study presents numerical examples showing the implications of endogenous-learning for the timing of carbon-abatement that stabilizes carbon concentrations (e.g. at 550 ppmv), as well as the implications of this in terms of cost/benefit (C/B) analysis. The endogenous-learning formulation is contrasted with the version of the model without ETL. The 
improved methodology indicates a potential for significant reduction in carbon-abatement cost and economic losses. The method, which is basically in favor of late actions in abatement, implicitly assumes early R&D support and learning investments in carbon-free systems to help these new technologies follow their learning curves. The endogenous treatment of learning already shows significant reductions of carbon emissions in the baseline case and indicates that low-carbon concentrations and improved environmental performance can be obtained when policies are followed that compensate for externalities related to climate change. More precisely, MERGE-ETL gives C/B-optimal carbon-emission trajectories near the 590-ppmv-concentration level. Moreover, the imposition of constraints on the rate of temperature change (e.g. 0.21 degrees C per decade) demands early actions in carbon mitigation. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Emissions from the transport sector represent the fastest growing source of greenhouse gas emissions. There is little prospect that this situation will be resolved with a single technological fix. As developing nations quickly move to catch up with the motorization levels of developed nations, the sheer number of private vehicles may overwhelm any advances made by cleaner fuels. By 2030, there is projected to be more vehicles in the developing world than in developed nations. Despite the growth in developing-nation transport emissions, the sector has produced relatively few mitigation projects within the mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol. However, a few developing cities, such as Bogota, Colombia, have demonstrated innovation in low-cost solutions to reducing emissions. This research employs scenario analysis to examine the size and cost of potential emission reduction options from the urban transport sector of developing nations. In particular, the analysis compares the cost of greenhouse gas emission reductions from fuel technology options to reductions from measures promoting mode shifting. This comparative analysis indicates that a diversified package of measures with an emphasis on mode shifting is likely to be the most cost-effective means to greenhouse gas emission reductions.Energy services are fundamental determinants of the quality of life as well as the economic vitality of both industrialized and developing nations. Few analytic tools exist, however, to explore changes in individual, household, and national levels of energy consumption and utilization. In order to contribute to such analyses, we extend the application of Lorenz curves to energy consumption. We examined the distribution of residential electricity consumption in five countries: Norway, USA, El Salvador, Thailand, and Kenya. These countries exhibit a dramatic range of energy profiles, with electricity consumption far more evenly distributed across the population in some industrialized nations than others, and with further significant differences in the Lorenz distribution between industrialized and industrializing economies. The metric also provides critical insights into the temporal evolution of energy management in different states and nations. We illustrate this with a preliminary longitudinal study of commercial and industrial electricity use in California during the economically volatile 1990s. Finally, we explore the limits of Lorenz a
nalyses for understanding energy equity through a discussion of the roles that variations in energy conversion efficiency and climate play in shaping distributions of energy consumption. The Lorenz method, which is widely employed by economists to analyze income distribution, is largely unused in energy analysis, but provides a powerful new tool for estimating the distributional dimensions of energy consumption. Its widespread use can make significant contributions to scientific and policy debates about energy equity in the context of climate change mitigation, electric power industry deregulation and restructuring, and the development of national infrastructure. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Field measurements and model results have recently shown that aerosols may have important climatic impacts. One line of inquiry has investigated whether reducing climate-warming soot or black carbon aerosol emissions can form a viable component of mitigating global warming. We review and acknowledge scientific arguments against considering aerosols and greenhouse gases in a common framework, including the differences in the physical mechanisms of climate change and relevant time scales. We argue that such a joint consideration is consistent with the language of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We synthesize results from published climate-modeling studies to obtain a global warming potential for black carbon relative to that Of CO2 (680 on a 100 year basis). This calculation enables a discussion of cost-effectiveness for mitigating the largest sources of black carbon. We find that many emission reductions are either expensive or difficult to enact when compared with greenhouse gases, particularly in Annex I countries. Finally, we propose a role for black carbon in climate mitigation strategies that is consistent with the apparently conflicting arguments raised during our discussion. Addressing these emissions is a promising way to reduce climatic interference primarily for nations that have not yet agreed to address greenhouse gas emissions and provides the potential for a parallel climate agreement.Under a voluntary agreement with the Government, the Swiss private sector proposes to lauch an innovative Climate Penny Fund. Oil importers agree to contribute CHF 0.01-0.02 for each liter of gasoline and diesel sold. The measure will generate at least CHF 70 million annually to finance climate protection projects domestically and abroad, enabling Switzerland to eliminate the anticipated transport sector compliance gap and to fulfill its greenhouse gas emission reduction obligations. At reasonable cost, the Climate Penny buys time to implement transport sector policies, develop low-emission technologies/infrastructure and facilitate behavioral changes, while still delivering real, measurable and long-term climate mitigation results. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Biogeomorphology has developed into a well-established research field over the past 15 years, with studies examining a range of two-way interrelations between organisms and geomorphology in a variety of terrestrial and marine environments. This paper starts by defining, the core biogeomorphological processes-bioerosion, bioprotection and bioconstruction. Particular emphasis is placed on the study of bioconstructional forms; providing a clear defin
ition, examples of bioconstructions, and, crucially, examining important interactions between bioconstruction and bioerosion. Three key areas where biogeomorphological research can directly contribute to the emerging field of geobiology are identified: (1) the use of biogeomorphological approaches, combined with palaeoecological investigations and predictive modelling, in the growing field of carbon sequestration and climate change mitigation; (2) providing geomorphological expertise to support the emerging field of astrobiology and (3) the potential contributions of biogeomorphology to the blossoming field of bio-geoengincering. Some key research directions and challenges for future biogeomorphological research include: exploring how biogeomorphological studies can contribute to and benefit from collaborations with other fields of geobiology, and assisting in the development of a useful, effective interdisciplinary toolbox of methods to improve quantification of geobiological processes. Importantly, suggestions are made for potentially fruitful collaborations with geomicrobiologists, geochemists and palaeoecologists. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The present paper briefly explores the scientific, technical and economical characteristics of Zero Emission Technologies, with a particular emphasis on the E-MATIANT cycle. It is shown that this latter provides a cost-effective option to mitigate CO2 emissions, with a cost of electricity generation comparable to the one of advanced coal/gas fired powerplants with CO2 capture and competitive with renewable wind energy. The important energy policy question of whether it is more cost-effective to upgrade an existing plant with a capture unit or to build a ZET is also addressed by introducing the concept of Mitigation Cost.This paper describes the economically optimal adoption and operation of distributed energy resources (DER) by a hypothetical California microgrid (mu Grid) consisting of a group of commercial buildings over an historical test year, 1999. The optimization is conducted using a customer adoption model developed at Berkeley Lab and implemented in the General Algebraic Modeling System. A mu Grid is a semiautonomous grouping of electricity and heat loads interconnected with the existing utility grid (macrogrid) but able to island from it. The mu Grid minimizes the cost of meeting its energy requirements (consisting of both electricity and heat loads) by optimizing the installation and operation of DER technologies while purchasing residual energy from the local combined natural gas and electricity utility. The available DER technologies are small-scale generators (< 500 kW), such as reciprocating engines, microturbines, and fuel cells, with or without combined heat and power (CHP) equipment, such as water and space heating and/or absorption cooling. By introducing a tax on carbon emissions, it is shown that if the mu Grid is allowed to install CHP-enabled DER technologies, its carbon emissions are mitigated more than without CHP, demonstrating the potential benefits of small-scale CHP technology for climate change mitigation. Reciprocating engines with heat recovery and/or absorption cooling tend to be attractive technologies for the mild southern California climate, but the carbon mitigation tends to be modest compared to purchasing utility electricity because of the pred
ominance of relatively clean central station generation in California.High concentrations of pollution particles, including "soot" or black carbon,,exist over the Indian Ocean, but their sources and geographical origins are not well understood. We measured emissions from the combustion of biofuets, used widely in south Asia for cooking, and found that large amounts of carbonaceous aerosols are emitted per kilogram of fuel burnt. We calculate that biofuel combustion is the largest source of black carbon emissions in India, and we suggest that its control is central to climate change mitigation in the south Asian region.The objective of this study is to analyze the economic viability of carbon-offset projects that avoid logging in Guyana's forests. The results of this case study illustrate the cost effectiveness of alternative land-use options that reduce deforestation and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This analysis demonstrates that using Guyana's rainforests for climate change mitigation can generate equivalent revenue to that of conventional large-scale logging without detrimental environmental impacts. At a 12% discount rate, the break-even price for carbon is estimated to be about US$ 0.20/tC. This estimate falls toward the low range of carbon prices for existing carbon offset projects that avoid deforestation. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The probability that storage of carbon dioxide (CO2) in deep geologic formations will become an important climate change mitigation strategy depends on a number of factors, namely (1) public acceptance, (2) the cost of geologic storage compared to other climate change mitigation options, and (3) the availability, capacity, and location of suitable sites. Whether or not a site is suitable will be determined by establishing that it can meet a set of performance requirements for safe and effective geologic storage. To date, no such performance requirements have been developed. Establishing effective requirements must start with an evaluation of how much CO2 might be stored and for how long the CO2 must remain underground to meet goals for controlling atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Answers to these questions provide a context for setting performance requirements for geologic storage projects. According to the results presented here, geologic storage could be an effective method to ease the transition away from a fossil-fuel based economy over the next several centuries, even if large amounts of CO2 are stored and some small fraction seeps from storage reservoirs back into the atmosphere. An annual seepage rate of 0.01% or 10(-4)/year would ensure the effectiveness of geologic carbon storage for any of the projected sequestration scenarios explored herein, even those with the largest amounts of storage (1,000 s of gigatonnes of carbon-GtC), and still provide some safety margin. Storing smaller amounts of carbon (10 s to 100 s of GtC) may allow for a slightly higher seepage rate on the order of 0.1% or 10(-3)/year. Based on both the large capacity of geologic storage formation and the likelihood of achieving leakage rates much lower than the rates estimated here, geologic storage appears to be a promising mitigation strategy.Willingness-to-pay for climate change mitigation depends on people's perceptions about just how bad things will get if nothing is done. Individual subjectiv
e distributions for future climate conditions are combined with stated choices over alternative climate policies to estimate individual option prices (the appropriate ex ante welfare measure in the face of uncertainty) for climate change mitigation. We find statistically significant sensitivity of estimated option prices to both expected future conditions and uncertainty about future conditions. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The range of possibilities for future climate evolution(1-3) needs to be taken into account when planning climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies. This requires ensembles of multi-decadal simulations to assess both chaotic climate variability and model response uncertainty(4-9). Statistical estimates of model response uncertainty, based on observations of recent climate change(10-13), admit climate sensitivities - defined as the equilibrium response of global mean temperature to doubling levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide - substantially greater than 5 K. But such strong responses are not used in ranges for future climate change(14) because they have not been seen in general circulation models. Here we present results from the 'climateprediction.net' experiment, the first multi-thousand-member grand ensemble of simulations using a general circulation model and thereby explicitly resolving regional details(15-21). We find model versions as realistic as other state-of-the-art climate models but with climate sensitivities ranging from less than 2 K to more than 11 K. Models with such extreme sensitivities are critical for the study of the full range of possible responses of the climate system to rising greenhouse gas levels, and for assessing the risks associated with specific targets for stabilizing these levels.With entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol in 2005, climate change negotiators are turning their attention to the question, 'Where do we go from here?. A key component of answering this question is in understanding the implications for society of alternative long-term goals for greenhouse gas concentrations. One challenge in ongoing negotiations is whether and how to deal with meanings of 'dangerous interference' as outlined in Article 2 of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. This study addresses Article 2 by suggesting the use of long-term goals to guide decisions about the stringency and timing of future climate change commitments. Focusing on mitigation policy benefits and, in particular, on avoiding long-term climate impacts, a number of management approaches and their implications are highlighted. After discussing some challenges of using scientific knowledge to monitor and manage progress, we look at what we can learn from current climate change global impact literature. Solid benchmark indicators appear to be available from global mean temperature change, ecosystems and coastal zone impacts information. We conclude by arguing for global goal-setting based on climate change effects and the use of indicators in these areas as part of post-2012 climate change negotiations. Aggregate global impacts suggest that 3-4 degrees C of global mean temperature increase by 2100 (compared to a reference period of 1990) may be a threshold beyond which all known sector impacts are negative and rising with increasing levels of warming. However, marginal benefits may accrue at lower le
vels of mean change. Thus, a prudent policy might aim for significantly lower levels and slower rates of global warming.Europe has positioned itself as a front runner for climate mitigation policy globally. However, to reach climate mitigation targets that go far beyond Kyoto commitments, climate policy must become more integrated with sectoral policies such as energy, transport and agriculture. To achieve such policy integration, policy refraining and dilemma sharing among sectoral actors are important mechanisms. This article proposes the basic elements of an integrated policy agenda based on an assessment of achievements to date in three sectors as well as an outlook for the future of some overarching framework conditions. The analysis of existing and emergent dilemmas and opportunities suggests that a policy agenda must be vigorously pursued internally within the EU as well as with its neighbours and the outside world. Basic elements of this agenda include innovation policies, structural change pressures, and a concerted and coherent international policy agenda where trade policy, foreign policy, climate policy and agricultural policy are working in the same direction.This article reveals the contribution of woodland expansion in Ukraine to climate change mitigation policies. The opportunities for climate change mitigation of three policy scenarios: (1) carbon storage in forests, (2) carbon storage and additional wood-for-fuel substitution, and (3) carbon storage with additional sink policy for wood products, are investigated by using a simulation technique, in combination with cost-benefit analysis. The article concludes that the Ukraine's forests and their expansion offer a low-cost opportunity for carbon sequestration. Important factors that influence the results are the discount rate and the time horizon considered in the models. The findings provide evidence that the storage climate change mitigation forest policy scenario is most viable for the country, under the assumptions considered in this research.This article is based on an analysis of the results of more than 40 public opinion surveys taken during the period from 1989 through 2004, with special attention given to surveys taken during the period 2000-2004. The data indicate that a substantial majority of the US public wants the government to do more about the problem of global warming, and they do not support key elements of the Bush administration policies. In particular, they would like the USA to participate in the Kyoto Protocol. Further, a majority prefers mandatory, rather than voluntary, emission reductions by industry; and a majority supports US economic assistance for mitigation projects in developing countries. The level of US public concern has been nearly as high as among European publics. Gaps between US public opinion and US leaders' opinions had been evident in earlier years, with the public exhibiting more concern and more support for new policies; but evidence from 2004 suggests that support among US leaders for the Kyoto Protocol may have risen to approximate the level of public support. Yet, there is also evidence that many US leaders remain unaware of the extent of public support for more action, and of public opposition to recent US administration policies. Altogether, these findings and others reported in the article indicate that there is already a p
ublic consensus. However, the national administration during 20012004 and many members of Congress have not only been outside that public consensus but are perhaps not even aware of it. The consensus-building process for support for climate change mitigation thus appears to have progressed more than is commonly recognized. A more widespread recognition of the state of public opinion, especially by members of Congress and their staff as well as business leaders, would fundamentally alter the political dynamics of climate change policymaking in the USA.As policymakers and stakeholders increasingly consider relative merits and complementarities of climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies, it is important to improve analytical capacities to support this process. Because a single analytical approach is unlikely to fit all needs, this paper explores potentials for an integrated analytical framework that incorporates both top-down and bottom-up approaches. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Climate change adaptation and mitigation decisions made by governments are usually taken in different policy domains. At the individual level however, adaptation and mitigation activities are undertaken together as part of the management of risk and resources. We propose that a useful starting point to develop a national climate policy is to understand what societal response might mean in practice. First we frame the set of responses at the national policy level as a trade off between investment in the development and diffusion of new technology, and investment in encouraging and enabling society to change its behaviour and or adopt the new technology. We argue that these are the pertinent trade-offs, rather than those usually posited between climate change mitigation and adaptation. The preference for a policy response that focuses more on technological innovation rather than one that focuses on changing social behaviour will be influenced by the capacity of different societies to change their greenhouse gas emissions; by perceived vulnerability to climate impacts; and by capacity to modify social behaviour and physical environment. Starting with this complete vision of response options should enable policy makers to re-evaluate the risk environment and the set of response options available to them. From here, policy makers should consider who is responsible for making climate response decisions and when actions should be taken. Institutional arrangements dictate social and political acceptability of different policies, they structure worldviews, and they determine the provision of resources for investment in technological innovation and social change. The importance of focussing on the timing of the response is emphasised to maximise the potential for adjustments through social learning and institutional change at different policy scales. We argue that the ability to respond to climate change is both enabled and constrained by social and technological conditions. The ability of society to respond to climate change and the need for technological change for both decarbonisation and for dealing with surprise in general, are central to concepts of sustainable development. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The potential for developing synergies between climate change mitigation and adaptation has become a recent focus of both climate 
research and policy. Presumably the interest in synergies springs from the appeal of creating win-win situations by implementing a single climate policy option. However, institutional complexity, insufficient opportunities and uncertainty surrounding their efficiency and effectiveness present major challenges to the widespread development of synergies. There are also increasing calls for research to define the optimal mix of mitigation and adaptation. These calls are based on the misguided assumption that there is one single optimal mix of adaptation and mitigation options for all possible scenarios of climate and socio-economic change, notwithstanding uncertainty and irrespective of the diversity of values and preferences in society. In the face of current uncertainty, research is needed to provide guidance on how to develop a socially and economically justifiable mix of mitigation, adaptation and development policy, as well as on which elements would be part of such a mix. Moreover, research is needed to establish the conditions under which the process of mainstrearning can be most effective. Rather than actually developing and implementing specific mitigation and adaptation options, the objective of climate policy should be to facilitate such development and implementation as part of sectoral policies. Finally, analysis needs to focus on the optimal use and expected effectiveness of financial instruments, taking into account the mutual effects between these instruments on the one hand, and national and international sectoral investments and official development assistance on the other. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In its Third Assessment Report (IPCC 2001), the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concluded that climate policies designed to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions area win-win proposition. They relied on models that predict climate policy will bring significant benefits for developed countries, and even larger benefits for developing countries. The rationale behind these findings is that climate policies will reduce fossil fuel consumption and their associated local air pollution, hence reducing health impacts of poor air quality yielding "ancillary benefits" (i.e. indirect or side benefits) offsetting, and at times exceeding, the mitigation costs. IPCC's assertions are reflective of conditions where fossil fuel consumption is the major determinant of urban outdoor air quality, and indoor and outdoor air quality are strongly correlated. Our research examines the validity of the ancillary benefit models in developing countries where the continued use of biomass and household coal determine indoor air quality and are estimated to result in 1.6 million deaths annually. We use a case study analysis for India to illustrate linkages between climate mitigation policy and household indoor air pollution. The significance of this research is to incorporate biomass, non-commercial household energy sources, and indoor air pollution in the analysis of international climate policy impacts.The Kyoto Protocol (KP) requires signatories to reduce CO2-equivalent emissions by an average of 5.2% from 1990 levels by the commitment period 2008-2012. This constitutes only a small proportion of global greenhouse gas emissions. Importantly, countries can attain a significant portion of their targets by sequestering carbon in terrest
rial ecosystems in lieu of emission reductions. Since carbon sink activities lead to ephemeral carbon storage, forest management and other activities that enhance carbon sinks enable countries to buy time as they develop emission reduction technologies. Although many countries are interested in sink activities because of their presumed low cost, the analysis in this paper suggests otherwise. While potentially a significant proportion of required CO2 emission reductions can be addressed using carbon sinks, it turns out that, once the opportunity cost of land and the ephemeral nature of sinks are taken into account, costs of carbon uptake could be substantial. Carbon uptake via forest activities varies substantially depending on location (tropical, Great Plains, etc.), activity (forest conservation, tree planting, management, etc.), and the assumptions and methods upon which the cost estimates are based. Once one eliminates forestry projects that should be pursued because of their biodiversity and other non-market benefits, or because of their commercial profitability, there remain few projects that can be justified purely on the grounds that they provide carbon uptake benefits.Woodpellets are regarded as one of the substitutes for fossil fuels like coal and oil for heating and co-generation. Wood pellets are a successful example of market penetration of renewable energy in some countries in Europe, e.g., Sweden. An analysis process is proposed in this paper and used to conduct a techno-economic assessment of wood pellets production and applications in some areas in China with the consideration of technology transfer from Sweden by examining their market competitiveness with coal in these areas. Financial indices such as net present value (NPV), internal return rate (IRR) and year-to-positive cash flow are calculated to investigate the profitability of the technology transfer. Four locations of applications in China have been considered as case studies. The result indicates that in the market-only-based scenario, wood pellets production will not be profitable in all selected areas. New scenarios from the analysis process show that reducing investment and increasing the amount of bank loan will be helpful to increase the project's profitability in general; adding taxes on coal could be effective, but it depends on Chinese government's future efforts on climate change mitigation; carbon credits on wood pellets through the clean development mechanism (CDM) might make wood pellet projects profitable giving wood pellets a nich-market. The potential global environment benefits of CO2 emission reduction by using wood pellets to replace coal in a 7 MWth coal-fired industrial boiler with a thermal efficiency of 80% and 5000 hours of operation time are also presented.The first decision to apply underground storage of carbon dioxide (CO2) captured from natural gas - as a climate change mitigation effort - was taken by Statoil (operator) and partners in the Sleipner North Sea licence in 1990. The second such decision was taken by Statoil (operator) and partners in the Snohvit licence in the Barents Sea in the fall of 2001. A third project of this type was put in operation in the In Salah field in Algeria. This paper presents these injection projects and possible solutions to how CO2 can be turned into a business opportunity. The whole chain of CO2 mana
gement will be covered, including capture, transportation, storage and end use of CO2. Industrial ecology has mainly been concerned with improving the efficiency of production systems. But addressing consumption is also vital in reducing the impact of society on its environment. The concept of sustainable consumption is a response to this. But the debates about sustainable consumption can only really be understood in the context of much wider and deeper debates about consumption and about consumer behavior itself. This article explores some of these wider debates. In particular, it draws attention to a fundamental disagreement that runs through the literature on consumption and haunts the debate on sustainable consumption: the question of whether, or to what extent, consumption can be taken as "good for us." Some approaches assume that increasing consumption is more or less synonymous with improved well-being: the more we consume the better off we are. Others argue, just as vehemently, that the scale of consumption in modern society is both environmentally and psychologically damaging, and that we could reduce consumption significantly without threatening the quality of our lives. This second viewpoint suggests that a kind of "double dividend" is inherent in sustainable consumption: the ability to live better by consuming less and reduce our impact on the environment in the process, In the final analysis, this article argues, such "win-win" solutions may exist but will require a concerted societal effort to realize.This article argues that in the global North a successful path to sustainability will entail a stabilization of consumption through reductions in hours of work, a solution that neither ecologists nor economists have addressed seriously. The article presents data on the slowdown of hours reductions in many countries and discusses the need for policy intervention to counter firm-level disincentives to reducing hours of work. It then discusses the potential popularity of work-hour reductions with consumers. It ends with an argument that technological changes will be insufficient to achieve sustainable consumption patterns and that averting continued increases in the scale of consumption through trading income for time is imperative.Sustainable consumption is unlikely to be achieved as long as the quantity of household waste generated in industrial nations continues to rise. One factor underlying this trend is the life span of household goods. This article contributes to recent advances in life-cycle thinking by highlighting the significance of product life spans for sustainable consumption and exploring the current state of research. A theoretical model is developed to demonstrate how, by contributing to efficiency and sufficiency, longer product life spans may secure progress toward sustainable consumption, Empirical research undertaken in the United Kingdom on consumer attitudes and behavior relating to the life spans of household products is reviewed and factors that influence the market for longer-lasting products are discussed. A need is identified for further research on product life spans and some themes are proposed.A key challenge in attaining regional sustainability is to reduce both the direct and the indirect environmental impacts associated with economic and household activity in the region. Knowing what these flows a
re and how they change over time is a prerequisite for this task. This article describes the early development of an integrated regional materials flow accounting framework The framework is based on a hybrid (material and economic) multiregional input-output model. Using readily available economic and materials data sets together with transport and logistics data, the framework attempts to provide estimates of household resource flows for any U.K. region at quite detailed levels of product and material disaggregation. It is also capable of disaggregating these flows according to specific socioeconomic criteria such as income level or occupation of the head of household. Allied to appropriate energy and life-cycle assessment data sets, the model could, in addition, be used to map both direct and indirect environmental impacts associated with these flows. The benefits of such an approach are likely to be a considerable reduction of uncertainties in ( 1) our knowledge of the household metabolism, and hence our predictions of regional household waste generation; (2) our assessment of the impacts of contemplated changes in industrial process siting, and thereby on other aspects of local and regional planning; and (3) our understanding of the impacts of changes in the pattern of demand for different materials and products. It is concluded that the use of such an integrated assessment tool has much to contribute to the debate on regional sustainability.Measures taken to protect the environment often have other, unintended effects on society. One concern is that changed behavior may offset part of the environmental gain, something that has variously been labeled "take-back" or "rebound." In energy economics, the rebound effect encompasses both the behavioral and systems responses to cost reductions of energy services as a result of energy efficiency measures. From an industrial ecology perspective, we are concerned about more than just energy use. Any given efficiency measure has several types of environmental impacts. Changes in the various impact indicators are not necessarily in the same direction. Both co-benefits and negative side effects of measures directed to solve one type of problem have been identified. Environment is often a free input, so that a price-based rebound effect is not expected, but other indirect effects not connected to the price, such as spillover of environmental behavior, also occur. If the costs and impact of products that are already environmentally friendly are reduced, the "rebound" can be in the opposite, desired direction. Furthermore, I identify technical spillover effects. Hence a number of related effects, often producing positive results, are not as well understood. Household environmental impact assessments and eco-efficiency assessments take into account the rebound effect, but they do not necessarily take into account these other effects. The analysis hence indicates that the current focus on the rebound effect is too narrow and needs to be extended to cover co-benefits, negative side effects, and spillover effects.This article describes the integration of life-cycle assessment methods with a new input-output model of the world economy to analyze the environmental and economic implications of alternative future diets. The article reviews findings by industrial ecologists about the energy and land required 
for the production and consumption of alternative foods and diets in several European countries. It also reviews attributes of foods and diets identified by nutritionists as reducing the risks of obesity and major chronic diseases related to the diets of the affluent. The predominantly plant-based Mediterranean-type diet emerges as a dietary scenario that could satisfy both sets of concerns. The likely implications for, agriculture and for farm policies of a shift toward this diet from the current average diet in the United States are discussed and shown to be substantial. The one-country studies reviewed in the article provide substantial insights into the potential ramifications of dietary change. Many of the limitations of these studies could be overcome by conducting the analysis in a global framework that represented the relationships among consumption, production, and trade and the physical constraints within which they operate. Analysis of the environmental and economic implications of alternative scenarios describing healthy diets can help stimulate more intensive dialogue, debate, and action among the interested parties; such analysis can both benefit from and contribute to initiatives such as the World Health Organization's global strategy on diet and health, which intends to enlist the support of governments, corporations, and civil society.This article analyzes nongovernmental organization (NGO) "market campaigns" that seek to motivate changes in global consumption and production patterns. Through campaigns targeting products as diverse as paper, shoes, and computers, advocacy groups seek to use existing concerns of consumers to influence producers, and simultaneously, to expand and deepen consumer demand for more sustainable products and services. NGOs deploy both negative information to critique leading brands, and positive information to help build new markets for improved products. Successful market campaigns construct networks of actors that identify points of leverage within global production and trading -egimes; coordinate research, exposure, direct action, and negotiations with brands; identify solutions; advance new multi-stakeholder standards and monitoring and certification schemes; build new nongovernmental regulatory institutions; and occasionally attempt to strengthen state regulation. Through an assessment of three market campaigns focused on Staples, Nike, and Dell, this article describes the nature of these campaigns, discusses how they function, assesses their central strategies and tactics, and they are actually having an impact. The article concludes by discussing the relevance and implications of these campaigns for the field of industrial ecology, and how industrial ecology might support future efforts to advance more sustainable producticn and consumption.Industrial ecologists have modeled with precision the material foundations of industrial systems, but given less attention to the demand for products and the drivers of structural changes in these systems. This article suggests that time use data complement data on monetary expenditure and can be used to elucidate the everyday life context in which the changes in the economy take place. It builds upon the claim that goods are not direct sources of utility, but enter specific household activities as inputs. A second argument for the proposed approach is 
that it can be used to introduce and foster human agency in analyses of production systems. The article uses Finnish time use survey data, consumption expenditure data, and data on the sectoral energy intensities of financial output in the Finnish economy. First, a measure of the energy intensity of octivities is derived by relating consumer time use and the required direct and indirect energy requirements. Second, the results include a decomposition of changes in the energy requirements of private consumption in Finland during the 1990s. It is shown that although the same activities on average require increasing energy inputs per unit of time, Finns have simultaneously changed the structure of their everyday life toward less energy-intensive activities.This article describes a method for determining the environmental load of Dutch private consumption. The method generates detailed information about consumption-related envronmental impacts. The environmental load of households (direct) and production (indirect) was determined for 360 expenditure categories reported in the Dutch Expenditure Survey. The indirect environmental load was calculated with linked input-output tables covering worldwide production and trade. The environmental load per Euro turnover of industries was linked to consumer expenditures. With this method we can quantify several types of environmental load per expenditure category and per economic production region. It was found that food production, room heating, and car use are the most important elements in the environmental load of Dutch private consumption. The impacts taking place abroad were-with the exception of emission of greenhouse gases and road traffic noise-found to be larger than domestic impacts. Most land use was found to take place in developing (non-OECD) countries, whereas most emissions occur in industrialized (OECD) countries.Input-output modeling is a useful tool for tracing environmental impacts of consumption. Because it includes impacts originating from production layers of infinite order (capturing the entire economy), input-output modeling is highly relevant for studies operating in a life-cycle context. In this article we show how the input-output approach can be used to enumerate the problem of sustainable consumption. Based on a literature survey including research done by the authors we present measures of the emissions of carbon dioxide at different spatial levels: nation, city, and household. Further, we take more environmental effects into account and introduce the concept of environmental efficiency by combining input-output modeling and data envelopment analysis. Finally, we discuss the policy relevance of the different measures. The article demonstrates that input-output modeling has a wide range of life-cycle oriented applications when combined with other data sources such as detailed trade statistics, foreign input-output and environmental statistics, and household expenditure data.China's development over the last few decades has been characterized by high rates of economic growth, large-scale migration from rural areas to the fast-growing cities accompanied by changes in lifestyles, and steady population growth. These developments have left deep marks on resource availability and quality. In this article we conduct a scenario analysis of how lifestyle changes and other major devel
opments might affect water resources. China has the longest tradition in river and water resource management in the world. Its civilization has sought to control the effects of floods and drought for thousands of years and has utilized water flows for irrigation and navigation. In the last century, competing uses such as domestic, municipal, and industrial water consumption have also become reasons for the regulation of and large-scale abstraction of water. To investigate the major changes in economy and society and their effects on the water situation in China, a set of scenarios is developed and analyzed within a structural economics framework. A hydrological model that. represents water flows in the major watersheds is linked to a regional input-output model that represents socioeconomic activities in the major economic-administrative regions of China. The regional analysis shows that the North and Northwest regions are waterscarce and that lifestyle changes and technical shifts are the most important factors driving future water consumption.The extension of the waste input-output (WIO) model to analyze households' sustainable consumption patterns is presented in this article. We estimate direct and indirect emission loads induced by household consumption by the WIO model. The WIO model is much more suitable for the analysis of sustainable consumption than the conventional input-output model because it can deal with the disposal stage of consumed goods as well as the purchase and use stages. A simple method for evaluating income rebound effects is also introduced. As indicators of environmental loads, we estimate carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and landfill consumption induced by household consumption. The model is applied to some typical sustainable consumption scenarios: shifting transportation modes from a private car 70 public transportation, the longer use of household electric appliances, and eating at restaurants instead of cooking at home. We found that the income rebound effects should be considered to evaluate environmental loads induced by different consumption patterns.The objective of this article is to explore the potential for lowering household energy use given existing local support systems, in this case in the Stockholm inner city with the aid of the Dutch energy analysis program (EAP) that was adapted to Swedish conditions and that portrays total energy use for 300 consumption categories. Previously such modeling for Sweden was carried out using only Dutch databases. Our case-study area is well equipped with food stores, local markets, public transportation, and entertainment facilitating some energy-efficient consumption choices. With maintained expenditure levels but changed consumption patterns, current reduction potentials are on the order of 10-20%. Options concerning diet can lower food indirect energy use by up to 30%, whereas options in other areas have a lower potential. Further reductions will require enhanced local support systems, external as well as internal, The Results indicate that it is risky not to use nationally adapted figures for energy efficiency in the production sectors when modeling household energy use, because potential for change may be overlooked. Future work should include foreign energy intensities when modeling imported goods; otherwise, results may be less reliable. The Swedish EAP nee
ds further work before it can be put to use as a modeling tool for everyday behavior, but it is already generating important possibilities for producing reliable data that can be used by local energy counselors.Synthetic organic chemicals are ingredients of many consumer products used daily. Consumers are therefore constantly exposed to a broad spectrum of synthetic organic chemicals, which might be irritants or have other effects harmful to human health, in the consumption phase of the product life cycle. Relevant examples are the polycyclic musk fragrances that make up an important group of synthetic fragrance compounds. Using a scenario-based approach, we simulate various product uses and calculate the resulting dermal exposure to the musk fragrances 6-acetyl-1,1,2,4,47-hexamethyltetraline and hexahydro-hexamethyl-cyclopenta(gamma)-2-benzopyran for a wide spectrum of consumer products. The product spectrum was selected from scented personal care products and household cleansing agents. Exposure to musk fragrances is calculated with two dermal exposure models, and results are presented for female and male European consumers, The variability of required inputs is accounted for by assuming minimal, average or median, and maximal values for important model parameters. The study identifies a limited number of types of scented consumer products as significantly contributing to daily dermal consumer exposure to musk fragrances. Exposure levels resulting from the simultaneous use of these products and the number of exposed consumers are investigated.Bringing about more sustainable consumption patterns is an important challenge for society and science. In this article the concept of household metabolism is applied to analyzing consumption patterns and to identifying possibilities for the development of sustainable household consumption patterns. Household metabolism is determined in terms of total energy requirements, including both direct and indirect energy requirements, using a hybrid method. This method enables us to evaluate various determinants of the environmental load of consumption consistently at several levels-the national level, the local level, and the household level. The average annual energy requirement of households varies considerably between the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Norway, and Sweden, as well as within these countries. The average expenditure level per household explains a large part of the observed variations. Differences between these countries are also related to the efficiency of the production sectors and to the energy supply system. The consumption categories of food, transport, and recreation show the largest contributions to the environmental load. A comparison of consumer groups with different household characteristics shows remarkable differences in the division of spending over the consumption categories, Thus, analyses of different types of households are important for providing a basis for options to induce decreases of the environmental load of household consumption. At the city level, options for change are provided by an analysis of the city infrastructure, which determines a large part of the direct energy use by households (for transport and heating). At the national level, energy efficiency in production and in electricity generation is an important trigger for decreasing household energy requi
rements.As house size increases, resource use in buildings goes up, more land is occupied, increased impermeable surface results in more storm-water runoff, construction costs rise, and energy consumption increases. In new, single-family houses constructed in the United States, living area per family member has increased by a factor of 3 since the 1950s, In comparing the energy performance of compact (small) and large single-family houses, we find that a small house built to only moderate energy-performance standards uses substantially less energy for heating and cooling than a large house built to very high energy-performance standards. This article examines some of the trends in single-family house building in the United States and provides recommendations for downsizing houses to improve quality and resource efficiency.Commercial forests in many parts of the world are deficient in nitrogen and phosphorus. These nutrient-deficient forests often exist in close proximity to large animal feeding operations, meat processing and other food, textile, or other biomass-processing plants, and municipal waste treatment facilities. Many of these facilities produce large surpluses of nitrogen, phosphorus, and organic matter as gaseous ammonia, urea, uric acid, phosphorus compounds, bacterial sludges, and partially treated municipal wastewaters. These co-existing and substantial nutrient deficiencies and surpluses offer ready-made opportunities for discovery, demonstration, and commercial development of science-based, technology-facilitated, environmentally sound, economically viable, and socially acceptable "win-win alliances" among these major industries based on the principles of industrial ecology and sustainable development. The major challenge is to discover practical means to capture the surplus nutrients and put them to work in forest stands from which value-added products can be produced and sold at a profit.Animal production systems convert plant protein into animal protein. Depending on animal species, ration and management, between 5% and 45 % of the nitrogen (N) in plant protein is converted to and deposited in animal protein. The other 55%-95% is excreted via urine and feces, and can be used as nutrient source for plant (= often animal feed) production. The estimated global amount of N voided by animals ranges between 80 and 130 Tg N per year, and is as large as or larger than the global annual N fertilizer consumption. Cattle (60%), sheep (12%) and pigs (6%) have the largest share in animal manure N production. The conversion of plant N into animal N is on average more efficient in poultry and pork production than in dairy production, which is higher than in beef and sheep production. However, differences within a type of animal production system can be as large as differences between types of animal production systems, due to large effects of the genetic potential of animals, animal feed and management. The management of animals and animal feed, together with the genetic potential of the animals, are key factors to a high efficiency of conversion of plant protein into animal protein. The efficiency of the conversion of N from animal manure, following application to land, into plant protein ranges between 0 and 60%, while the estimated global mean is about 15%. The other 40% -100% is lost to the wider environment via NH3 volatilizatio
n, denitrification, leaching and run-off in pastures or during storage and/or following application of the animal manure to land. On a global scale, only 40%-50% of the amount of N voided is collected in barns, stables and paddocks, and only half of this amount is recycled to crop land. The N losses from animal manure collected in barns, stables and paddocks depend on the animal manure management system. Relative large losses occur in confined animal feeding operations, as these often lack the land base to utilize the N from animal manure effectively. Losses will be relatively low when all manure are collected rapidly in water-tight and covered basins, and when they are subsequently applied to the land in proper amounts and at the proper time, and using the proper method (low-emission techniques). The efficiency of the conversion of N from animal manure, following application to land, into plant protein ranges between 0 and 60%, while the estimated global mean is about 15%. The other 40% -100% is lost to the wider environment via NH3 volatilization, denitrification, leaching and run-off in pastures or during storage and/or following application of the animal manure to land. On a global scale, only 40%-50% of the amount of N voided is collected in barns, stables and paddocks, and only half of this amount is recycled to crop land. The N losses from animal manure collected in barns, stables and paddocks depend on the animal manure management system. Relative large losses occur in confined animal feeding operations, as these often lack the land base to utilize the N from animal manure effectively. Losses will be relatively low when all manure are collected rapidly in water-tight and covered basins, and when they are subsequently applied to the land in proper amounts and at the proper time, and using the proper method (low-emission techniques). There is opportunity for improving the N conversion in animal production systems by improving the genetic production potential of the herd, the composition of the animal feed, and the management of the animal manure. Coupling of crop and animal production systems, at least at a regional scale, is one way to high N use efficiency in the whole system. Clustering of confined animal production systems with other intensive agricultural production systems on the basis of concepts from industrial ecology with manure processing is another possible way to improve N use efficiency.This paper focuses upon the sustainability of the economy in relation to nature and natural ecosystems. There are two main aspects to this relationship: consumption of natural resources; and generation of pollution and wastes because of economic practices of production, exchange and consumption. The paper addresses the extent to which both consumption of natural resources and production of pollution and wastes can be reduced and the economy and its constituent practices and spaces be made more sustainable, recognizing that sustainability involves cultural, political-economic and social dimensions as well as the impact of human activity on nature. A close and critical reading of the literatures on industrial ecology, industrial metabolism and natural capitalism provides an entry point into these issues. These literatures help identify the 'natural limits' to economic practices but are themselves limited in their approach to issues of sus
tainability. The paper explores these latter limits and their implications. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.Resource sharing among co-located firms-referenced in the industrial ecology literature as "industrial symbiosis" engages traditionally separate industries in a collective approach to business and environmental management involving the physical exchanges of materials, energy, water, and byproducts. While industrial symbiosis is seen hypothetically as a win-win situation, there are few analyses of the economic and environmental consequences for the individual participants in multi-faceted exchanges. In this article, the nascent industrial symbiosis network in Guayama, Puerto Rico, is explored from environmental, economic, and regulatory perspectives of the individual participants and the community. A coal-fired power plant, owned and operated by the AES Corporation, draws five million gallons per day of process waterfrom nearby sources thus avoiding freshwater withdrawals and, through steam sales, significantly reduces emissions from a nearby refinery. This article quantifies economic and environmental costs and benefits for the symbiosis participants, concluding that there are substantial benefits to engaging in symbiosis, although these benefits fall unevenly on participating organizations. Policy intervention can be a viable means of motivating more regular occurrences of resource exchanges among groups of firms.Eco-efficiency is an instrument for sustainability analysis, indicating an empirical relation in economic activities between environmental cost or value and environmental impact. This empirical relation can be matched against normative considerations as to how much environmental quality or improvement society would like to offer in exchange for economic welfare, or what the trade-off between the economy and the environment should be if society is to realize a certain level of environmental quality. Its relevance lies in the fact that relations between economy and environment are not self-evident, not at a micro level and not at the macro level resulting from micro-level decisions for society as a whole. Clarifying the why and what of eco-efficiency is a first step toward decision support on these two aspects of sustainability. With the main analytic framework established, filling in the actual economic and environmental relations requires further choices in modeling. Also, the integration of different environmental effects into a single score requires a clear definition of approach, because several partly overlapping methods exist. Some scaling problems accompany the specification of numerator and denominator, which need a solution and some standardization before eco-efficiency analysis can become more widely used. With a method established, the final decision is how to embed it in practical decision making. In getting the details of eco-efficiency better specified, its strengths, but also its weaknesses and limitations, need to be indicated more clearlyEco-efficiency has been defined as a general goal of creating value while decreasing environmental impact. Leaving out the normative part of this concept, the empirical part refers to a ratio between environmental impact and economic cost or value. Two basic choices must be made in defining practical eco-efficiency: which variable is in the den
ominator and which is in the numerator; and whether to specify environmental impact or improvement and value created or cost. Distinguishing between two situations, the general one of value creation and the specific one of environmental improvement efforts, and leaving the numerator-denominator choice to the user, as diverging practices have developed, four basic types of eco-efficiency result: environmental intensity and environmental productivity in the realm of value creation; and environmental improvement cost and environmental cost-effectiveness in the realm of environmental improvement measures.We develop and apply a valuation methodology to calculate the cost of sustainability capital, and, eventually, sustainable value creation of companies. Sustainable development posits that decisions must take into account all forms of capital rather than just economic capital. We develop a methodology that allows calculation of the costs that are associated with the use of different forms of capital. Our methodology borrows the idea from financial economics that the return on capital has to cover the cost of capital. Capital costs are determined as opportunity costs, that is, the forgone returns that would have been created by alternative investments. We apply and extend the logic of opportunity costs to the valuation not only of economic capital but also of other forms of capital. This allows (a) integrated analysis of use of different forms of capital based on a value-based aggregation of different forms of capital, (b) determination of the opportunity cost of a bundle of different forms of capital used in a company, called cost of sustainability capital, (c) calculation of sustainability efficiency of companies, and (d) calculation of sustainable value creation, that is, the value above the cost of sustainability capital. By expanding the well-established logic of the valuation of economic capital in financial markets to cover other forms of capital, we provide a methodology that allows determination of the most efficient allocation of sustainability capital for sustainable value creation in companies. We demonstrate the practicability of the methodology by the valuation of the sustainability performance of British Petroleum (BP).Aggregation of environmental pressures into a single environmental damage index is a major challenge of eco-efficiency measurement. This article examines how the data envelopment analysis (DEA) method can be adapted for this purpose. DEA accounts for substitution possibilities between different natural resources and emissions and does not require subjective judgment about the weights. Although DEA does not require subjective or normative judgment, soft weight restrictions can be incorporated into the framework The proposed approach is illustrated by an application to assessing eco-efficiency of road transportation in the three largest towns of eastern Finland.To provide valuable support for successful decision-making, managers need a balanced set of financial and nonfinancial measures that represent different requirements, strategic goals, strategies, resources, and capabilities and the causal relationships between these domains. The balanced scorecard is such a measurement system. As an open system the balanced scorecard facilitates the consideration of sustainability issues. But enhanced balanced scorecards requi
re a new type of data. This is where eco-efficiency analysis comes into play. This article discusses the relationship between so-called sustainability balanced scorecards and eco-efficiency analysis. Eco-efficiency analysis not only provides a data source for sustainability balanced scorecards; in the perspective of environmental information systems it also serves as a link between the balanced scorecard and corporate environmental accounting systems so that eco-efficiency as a component of an environmental information system becomes an adapter with two interfaces, which are characterized in this article. The main focus is on the principle of cause and effect, its different forms, and the implications for the design of appropriate information system components.Eco-efficiency implies environmental improvement at the lowest possible cost. When several environmental measures are possible, these can be ranked according to their cost per unit of environmental improvement, after which an eco-efficient set of measures can be selected that yields a given level of environmental improvement at least cost. This procedure can be visualized as a supply curve for environmental improvement. Such a curve plots cumulative cost or cost per unit of environmental improvement against cumulative environmental improvement, with measures ordered according to increasing cost per unit of environmental improvement. This paper presents supply curves for environmental improvement on the basis of a set of possible environmental measures for a company in the Dutch oil and gas producing industry. To measure aggregated potential environmental improvement for a given measure, different environmental impacts are lumped together using weighting factors. We compare five methods for weighting environmental impacts, covering a wide range of current practices. The supply curves that were determined for each of the five weighting methods show relatively small differences, except for one (the distance-to-target method). The ranking of measures differs significantly, though, and as a result, so do the measures that are selected if total costs are restricted to a certain budget. Also, the consequent reduction in emissions of specific substances, in particular nitrogen oxides (NOx), depends on the weighting method selected.A maximum abatement cost (MAC) method is proposed as a means of assessing preferential purchasing of products with multiple environmental effects. Using the MAC method, cost-effectiveness of the introduction of a product with less emissions of some substances than conventional products can be assessed. In the MAC method, the reduction of a pollutant is multiplied by the MAC, the maximum unit cost of the measures taken elsewhere in society aiming to reduce the pollutant, and is added up over the relevant pollutants. The total sum, called avoidable abatement cost (AAC), is compared with the additional private cost of the product for the purchaser When the additional private cost is smaller than the AAC, the product is regarded as relatively eco-efficient. The MAC method is illustrated with an assessment of industrial pumps. The advantages and limitations of the method are discussed.The eco-efficiency analysis method developed and used by the Oko-Institut analyzes different alternatives that fulfill a defined consumer need, from an environmental as well as an economi
c perspective. Like life-cycle assessment (LCA), eco-efficiency analysis makes possible the setting of priorities in purchasing decisions or can be used to show optimization potentials in product development processes. Eco-efficiency analysis builds upon two methods: LCA, according to ISO 14040 ff. (to assess the environmental aspects of products and processes), and life-cycle costing. Life-cycle costing results in a single figure-the total costs of ownership to one or several actors. The environmental impacts can be evaluated and aggregated as a single score or the impact category indicator results can be kept separate. In either case two single scores can be compared: the total environmental burden or the impact category indicator results, and the total costs of ownership of the alternatives under consideration. The results can then be plotted in two-dimensional graphs that show the effectiveness of certain measures in environmental and economic terms. The efficiency is expressed as a numerical ratio of environmental savings to difference in costs. Together with furnishing more detailed results and a discussion of additional benefits or potential barriers, eco-efficiency analysis broadens the basis for decision-making processes.The concept of eco-efficiency is commonly referred to as a business link to sustainable development. In this article, eco-efficiency is examined at a regional level as an approach to promoting the competitiveness of economic activities in the Finnish Kymenlaakso region and mitigating their harmful impacts on the environment. The aim is to develop appropriate indicators for monitoring changes in the eco-efficiency of the region. A starting point is to produce indicators for the environmental and economic dimensions of regional development and use them for measuring regional eco-efficiency. The environmental impact indicators are based on a life-cycle assessment method, producing different types of environmental impact indicators: pressure indicators (e.g., emissions of CO2), impact category indicators (e.g., CO2 equivalents in the case of climate change), and a total impact indicator (aggregating different impact category indicator results into a single value). Environmental impact indicators based on direct material input, total material input and total material requirement of the Kymenlaakso region are also assessed. The economic indicators used are the gross domestic product, the value added, and the output of the main economic sectors of Kymenlaakso. In the eco-efficiency assessment, the economic and environmental impact indicators are monitored in the same graph. In a few cases eco-efficiency ratios can also be calculated (the economic indicators are divided by the environmental indicators). Output (= value added + intermediate consumption) is used as an economic indicator related to the environmental impact indicators, which also cover the upstream processes of the region's activities. In the article, we also discuss the strengths and weaknesses of using the different environmental impact indicators.Eco-efficiency at the product level is defined as product value per unit of environmental impact. In this paper, we present a method for quantifying the eco-efficiency using quality function deployment (QFD) and life-cycle impact assessment (LCIA). These well-known tools are widely used in the manufacturing indus
try. QFD, which is one of the methods used in product development based on consumer preferences, is introduced to calculate the product value. An index of the product value is calculated as the weighted average of improvement rates of quality characteristics. The importance of customer requirements, derived from the QFD matrix, is applied. Environmental impacts throughout a product life cycle are calculated based on an LCIA method widely used in Japan. By applying the LCIA method of endpoint type, the endpoint damage caused by various life-cycle inventories is calculated. Willingness to pay is applied to integrate it into a single index. Eco-design support tools, namely the life-cycle planning (LCP) tool and the life-cycle assessment (LCA) tool, have already been developed. Using these tools, data required for calculation of the eco-efficiency of products can be collected. The product value is calculated based on QFD data stored in the LCP tool and the environmental impact is calculated using the LCA tool. Case studies of eco-efficiency are adopted and the adequacy of this method is clarified. Several advantages of this method are characterized.At various levels of environmental policy-making there is a demand to translate polluting emissions into monetary units. In the so-called reduction cost approach, based upon policy targets, polluting emissions are expressed in monetary terms by determination of the marginal unit reduction cost at the emission target level. This approach provides shadow prices for emissions by which it can be established whether a certain measure or technology belongs to the most efficient set of measures by which the policy targets can be reached. This article argues that, if clear (generic) government targets such as national emission reduction targets exist for an emission, shadow prices derived by this method are to be preferred to shadow prices derived by other methods for decisions at the project (implementation) level. By application of the reduction cost approach, implementation decisions can be made that are both cost-effective and consistent with government policyEco-efficiency has been established as a crucial concept for corporate environmental management. Most approaches deal with eco-efficiency on the level of the company or the product. However, given that companies have special budgets earmarked for environmental operations or investments, the question arises as to which operation within which domain is the most eco-efficient. This article presents an approach to supporting these decisions by calculating eco-efficiency on the operational level. The procedure is demonstrated using a case study of the Swiss National Railway Company Investments and operations in the domains of energy production, landscape and nature conservation, noise protection, and contaminated soil remediation are assessed and compared. Decision-makers seeking an eco-efficient corporate investment policy will find, in this concept, a guideline for prioritizing various domains of operation as well as the operations within a domain.Measures of eco-efficiency-broadly understood as "getting more from less"-often include an economic and an environmental variable. The latter is often seen as the more problematic variable, particularly when used in relation to impacts of public concern. But an analysis of resource and value trends in the U
.K. steel and aluminum industries over the last 30 yr showed that there are significant problems associated with using economic variables in measures of eco-efficiency at the sectoral level. The research found that the U.K. steel and aluminum industries have improved the effectiveness with which they use natural resources, but that this has been accompanied by a decline in the economic output (value added) per unit of material or energy consumed. These seemingly contradictory results can be explained by the fall in the price of metals in real terms, and by the competitive pressures that necessitate the cutting of production costs and indirectly lead to a fall in the measure of economic output of the relevant industry. The research also suggests a logical terminology to bring consistency and coherence to the broad field of eco-efficiency indicators, with an important distinction made between measures that examine the value output per unit of physical input, and measures that examine the physical output per unit of physical input. Both these types of indicators are important, as they highlight different aspects of eco-efficiency.The concept of eco-efficiency is increasingly being applied to judge the combined environmental and economic performance of product systems, processes, and/or companies. Eco-efficiency is often defined as the ratio of economic value added to environmental impact added. This definition is not appropriate for end-of-pipe treatment technologies because these technologies aim at improving the environmental performance of technical processes at the cost of financial expense. Therefore, an indicator for the assessment of end-of-pipe technologies has been proposed. This indicator, called environmental cost efficiency (ECE), is defined as the ratio of net environmental benefits to the difference in costs. ECE is applied to four end-of-pipe technologies for the treatment of municipal solid waste: sanitary landfill, mechanical-biological treatment, modern grate incineration, and a staged thermal process (pyrolysis and gasification). A life-cycle assessment was performed on these processes to quantify the net environmental benefit. Moreover, the approximate net costs (costs minus benefits) were quantified. The results show that, relative to grate incineration, sanitary landfills and mechanical-biological treatment are less costly but environmentally more harmful. We calculated the ECE for all combinations of technologies. The results indicate that the staged thermal process may be the most environmentally cost-efficient alternative to all other treatment technologies in the long run, followed by mechanical-biological treatment and grate incineration.The closing of material loops is a critical challenge in industrial ecology. It relies mainly on the utilization of recovered materials/parts/products in the original and principal production system while their original function is retained at the highest level possible. In this study, advanced loop-closing systems for the recycling of end-of-life vehicles and electric household appliances are first designed in "Hyogo Eco-town." Second, a methodology for evaluating the eco-efficiency of these systems is developed. Finally, the eco-efficiency of the designed advanced loop-closing strategies for the two products is evaluated, based on the results of materials flow analysis and life-c
ycle assessment. The results show that, compared with conventional recycling systems, when an industrial complex and an advanced loop-closing system for end-of-life vehicles are established, the total economic value increases by 114% and the eco-efficiency in terms of the amount of direct material input is improved by 57%. This system permits the utilization of the by-products, wastes, and recovered materials that originate from other industrial sectors as input to production activities. In the case of end-of-life electric household appliances, an advanced loop-closing strategy to lengthen the product life with parts reuse improves the eco-efficiency in terms of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 4% compared with the conventional replacement of the appliance with a new product along with the material recycling option.A simple method of representing the eco-efficiency (E/E) of a product system has been developed and applied to a pollution prevention program at a small to medium-sized enterprise (SME). Cost-side and environment-side indicators were derived using total cost accounting and life-cycle assessment, respectively The derived indicators were subsequently normalized to reference values representing the current cost and environmental situation. By combining these normalized indicators, the E/E of a product system can be expressed on a simple graph. The method was applied in a case study carried out at a South Korean SME producing components for electronic equipment such as mobile communication base stations. A silver-plating process was identified as one of the key processes driving a substantial fraction of the total cost and aggregate environmental impact of the product system. Focusing on the key issues identified, a series of alternative processes, including use of a product insulation cover, a sieve-type ancillary electrode, a balanced-uniform plating technique, stream segregation, and noncyanice electroplating, were proposed. The feasibility of these alternatives was validated against product specifications as well as the company's financial and spatial capacity The potential improvements accruing from these alternatives are presented as a simple graph that can be used by decision makers to readily identify trade-offs between economic and environmental issues.The main purpose of industrial ecology is to evaluate and minimize impacts from economic activities. Tourism, as an economic activity, results in a full range of environmental impacts and should be regarded as any other industry. Hence, the application of industrial ecology in tourism was investigated to enhance environmental management of catering. More specifically, boxed food in Taiwan was taken as a case study to demonstrate this new approach. The framework for studying boxed food was based on material flow analysis. Boxed food analysis can be divided into two parts: the meal box and the contents. Meal boxes were inventoried with a life cycle assessment (LCA). According to the findings of this study, environmental impacts from a PP meal box production were more expensive than others, while those from a PS meal box production were the lowest. The life cycle inventory analysis of the contents will be investigated with a new approach system in the next phase of our work. This new approach is an integration of the LCA with the Hazard Analysis Control Point (HACCP) system. (
c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Despite the widespread incorporation of sustainable development into policy discourses, actually achieving the `win-win-win' scenario of economic, environmental and social development continues to be problematic. Advocates of industrial ecology suggest that by shifting the basis of industrial production from a linear to a closed loop system, these gains can be achieved. In recent years, concepts drawn from industrial ecology have been used to plan and develop eco-industrial parks (EIPs) that seek to increase business competitiveness, reduce waste and pollution, create jobs and improve working conditions. Despite a growing interest in EIPs, there have been few empirically informed studies that seek to explore the potential contribution such Ell's may make to sustainable development. This paper contributes to a developing sympathetic critique of industrial ecology by focusing on the key problems and dilemmas that arise in the course of developing eco-industrial parks, drawing upon empirical work conducted in the USA. The paper draws upon both an extensive survey of EIPs and in-depth interviews conducted with a range of stakeholders at ten US sites. As the paper reveals, EIPs in the USA are in their early stages and likewise their contribution to both economic development and environmental policy, let alone social policies, is complicated and inchoate. The empirical material reveals that key features of industrial ecology such as inter-firm networking and collaboration in the form of materials interchange and energy cascading are either absent or in the early planning stages. In each of the ten cases what is emerging is a form of EIP partly determined by the geographic setting and broader economic realities of the locality. While collaborative behaviour between firms is central to EIP development if the potential benefits of industrial ecology are to be realised, it is important to realise that such behaviour is difficult to develop from scratch through policy intervention. In conclusion, the paper suggests that expectations must be realistic for the community and location in question. As part of that realism, EIP projects must be designed to allow for a gradual approach, and each phase needs to be financially viable. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Printer and letter quality paper represents a high-value component of the waste from commercial premises. Around large cities, exemplified by London, the paper flows are sufficiently large to sustain a dedicated logistics network and plant to recover and recycle graphics-quality paper. Analysis of the fibre flows around the supply system for paper recovery and recycling shows that, given the present low proportion of recycled fibre graphics paper used in the UK, other sources of fibre are not needed to maintain the supply and quality of the recycled material. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of the recycling system shows that its environmental performance is dominated by energy use and greenhouse-warming emissions. Although the detailed results depend on how waste fibre and biomass are otherwise used, this emerges as a case in which recycling really does give environmental benefits. LCA also enables possible changes in the system for recovering and reprocessing paper to be examined, leading to new concepts for more sustainable local management of re
source flows.This article explores the potential of industrial ecology to inform the redesign of an existing industry: that which is concerned with the production, sale, and support of automobiles. In so doing, it brings together the concepts embedded in industrial ecology with issues of economic scale, product design or technology, process technology, and the way in which new combinations of these features can result in an alternative structure for the automotive industry that has the potential to enhance sustainability performance. In so doing, the article advances the general argument that the economic, technical, and spatial organization of production and consumption are co-determined in a manner that collectively shapes the industrial ecology of an industry. In contradistinction to the prevailing industry, the article then advances the concept of micro factory retailing as an alternative framework for the industry that would result in significantly different performance in terms of industrial ecology.New advances in Internet technologies and computer modeling provide opportunities for collaborative systems to support research and development in the field of industrial ecology. In particular, new information technologies such as semantic search engines based on ontologies could help researchers to link fragments of knowledge generated at research centers from around the world. Using a storyline of four imaginary researchers who hope to find collaborators in order to develop their research findings, we illustrate two levels of a four-level architecture for an Internet-based knowledge integration and collaboration environment for integrated environmental assessment. The foundation of the proposed architecture is a belief that computational models are an effective medium for conveying expert knowledge of various phenomena. Drawing from this premise, the first level of the architecture stands on a base of computational models that in some way represent the expert knowledge of the model builder. At the second level, we provide markup and interface definition tools to describe the type of knowledge contained in each model, together with the types of information services that can be provided. The results of research at these two levels of an Internet-based knowledge integration environment for integrated environmental assessment in industrial ecology are presented in this article. Our work on the third level of model searching and matching and the fourth level of parametric model integration and solving will be presented in subsequent articles.A common feature distinguishing between parametric/statistical models and engineering economics models is that engineering models explicitly represent best practice technologies, whereas parametric/statistical models are typically based on average practice. Measures of energy intensity based on average practice are of little use in corporate management of energy use or for public policy goal setting. In the context of company- or plant-level indicators, it is more useful to have a measure of energy intensity that is capable of indicating where a company or plant lies within a distribution of performance. In other words, is the performance close to (or far from) the industry best practice? This article presents a parametric/statistical approach that can be used to measure best practice, thereby providin
g a measure of the difference, or "efficiency gap;' at a plant, company, or overall industry level. The approach requires plant-level data and applies a stochastic frontier regression analysis used by the ENERGY STAR (TM) industrial energy performance indicator (EPI) to energy intensity. Stochastic frontier regression analysis separates energy intensity into three components: systematic effects, inefficiency, and statistical (random) error. The article outlines the method and gives examples of EPI analysis conducted for two industries, breweries and motor vehicle assembly. In the EPI developed with the stochastic frontier regression for the auto industry, the industry median "efficiency gap" was around 27%.A comprehensive annual cycle for stocks and flows of zinc, based on data from circa 1994 and incorporating information on extraction, processing, fabrication use discard recycling,,,, and landfilling, was carried out at three discrete governmental unit levels-54 countries and I country group (which together comprise essentially all global anthropogenic zinc stocks and flows), nine world regions, and the planet as a whole. All of these cycles are available in an electronic supplement to this article, which thus provides a metadata set on zinc flows for the use of industrial ecology researchers. A "best estimate" global zinc cycle was constructed to resolve aggregation discrepancies. Among the most interesting results are the following: (I) The accumulation ratio, that is, addition to in-use stock as a function of zinc entering use, is positive and large (2/3 of zinc entering use is added to stock) (country, regional, and global levels); (2) secondary input ratios (fractions of input to fabrication that are from recycled zinc) and domestic recycling percentages (fractions of discarded zinc that are recycled) differ among regions by as much as a factor of six (regional level); (3) worldwide, about 40% of the zinc that was discarded in various forms was recovered and reused or recycled (global level); (4) zinc cycles can usefully be characterized by a set of ratios, including, notably, the utilization efficiency (the ratio of manufacturing waste to manufacturing output: 0.090) and the prompt scrap ratio (new scrap as a fraction of manufacturing input: 0.070) (global level). Because capturable discards are a significant fraction of primary zinc inputs, if a larger proportion of discards were recaptured, extraction requirements would decrease significantly (global level). The results provide a framework for complementary studies in resource stocks, industrial resource utilization, energy consumption, waste management, industrial economics, and environmental impacts.A comprehensive multilevel contemporary cycle for stocks and flows of zinc is analyzed by the tools of exploratory data analysis. The analysis is performed at three discrete organizational levels-country (53 countries and I country group that together comprise essentially all anthropogenic stocks and flows of zinc), world region (9 world regions), and the planet as a whole. The results demonstrate the following: (1) Exploratory data analysis provides valuable and otherwise unobtainable information about material flows, especially those across multiple spatial levels. (2) All distributions of country-level zinc stock and flow data are highly skewed, a few countries having large magn
itudes, many having small magnitudes. (3) Rates of fabrication of zinc-containing products for the countries are poorly correlated with rates of extraction, reflecting the fact that many countries that extract zinc do not fabricate products from zinc to any significant degree, and vice versa. (4) Virtually all countries are adding zinc to stock in the use phase (in galvanizing applications, zinc castings, etc.). These rates of addition are highly correlated with rates of zinc entering use in all regions, and are higher in regions under vigorous development. (5) With weak confidence, the rate of zinc landfilling by countries appears to be highly correlated with the rate of discard. (6) The statistical distributions of regional-level zinc cycle parameters are approximately log normal. (7) The extremes of normalized statistical distributions of zinc flow values are broader at lower spatial levels (country versus region, for example), but regional interquartile ranges for zinc entering use and zinc discards are higher at regional level then at country level.Concerns about access to oil supplies have encouraged the exploration of renewable fuel and energy sources. Industrial ecology offers tools to compare the energy implications and benefits of differing strategies, but using botanical sources of raw materials to replace nonrenewable ones also requires appreciation of plant science, especially the variation in genetic potential within species. Whereas cultivation methods determine whether genetic potential is realized, different methods impact the environment to varying degrees. Experience with barley variety mixtures, aimed at reducing chemical input, has shown them to improve yield and reduce disease, while maintaining or even enhancing quality. Yield improvements still occurred in the absence of disease and increased in proportion to the number of component varieties. Because other research showed mixtures to be similarly effective in wheat, a protocol to grow and exploit a complex mixture of soft wheat is proposed, offering a cost-effective and energy efficient feedstock for a possible bioethanol industry in the United Kingdom. Ethanol would be produced initially from grain, with the straw used for heating or electricity generation. Fertilizer production and use and vehicle fuels have been shown as the main forms of energy consumption in growing a crop, and targets for enhancing the energy balance, by growing mixtures under an integrated farming system, are postulated. A close but negative association between grain protein and alcohol yield is demonstrated and a mixture giving comparable grain yield, but superior alcohol yield, to its best component is identified. Mixing varieties differing in plant morphology may also increase total biomass yield and, therefore, the energy generated from the crop. Pesticide reduction has another positive, though small, effect on the energy balance, from using mixtures. Eliminating prophylactic spraying also reduces vehicle fuel consumption, and may provide the low-toxicity benefits of organic agriculture without the yield penalty. A range of alternative uses for straw and other by-products is also discussed.Environmental policy is oriented toward integrated pollution prevention, taking into consideration all environmental media (air, water, land) and energy consumption. Therefore, methods for assessing e
nvironmentally relevant installations are needed which take economic, technical, and especially ecological criteria into account simultaneously. Mass and energy flow models are used for the representation of production processes and form the basis for the inventory phase in life-cycle assessment (LCA). For the interpretation of LCA results and the weighting of the aggregated impact assessment indicators, approaches of multicriterion analysis (MCA) have been proposed. These can analyze ecological aspects as well as economic and technical criteria. Recent developments in LCA focus on decision support for policy makers or decision boards. Appropriate support for investment decisions on environmentally relevant installations, however, is rare. Based on a case study of the sector called surface coating, an MCA of environmentally relevant installations is described. With the help of a mass and energy flow management system, alternative scenarios, depicting the use of solvent-reduced materials and environmentally friendly techniques, are modeled for the job coater processes in case studies of coating of mobile phones and coating of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) parts destined for the automobile industry. The modeled scenarios are further analyzed by using a multicriterion decision support module. The application of the outranking approach PROMETHEE is illustrated. A further investigation of the derived ranking can be obtained through sensitivity analyses. Moreover, the results derived by PROMETHEE are compared with the outcomes of the multicriterion approaches multiattribute utility theory and analytical hierarchy process.To date the most common measures of environmental performance used to compare industries, and by extension firms or facilities, have been quantity of pollution emitted or hazardous waste generated. Discharge information, however, does not necessarily capture potential health effects. We propose an alternative environmental performance measure that includes the public health risks of toxic air emissions extended to industry supply chains using economic input-output life-cycle assessment. Cancer risk to the U.S. population was determined by applying a damage function to the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) as modeled by CaITOX, a multimedia multi-pathway fate and exposure model. Risks were then translated into social costs using cancer willingness to pay. For a baseline emissions year of 1998, 260 excess cancer cases were calculated for I 16 TRI chemicals, dominated by ingestion risk from polycyclic aromatic compounds and dioxins emitted by the primary aluminum and cement industries, respectively. The direct emissions of a small number of industry sectors account for most of the U.S. population cancer risk. For the majority of industry sectors, however, cancer risk per $1 million output is associated with supply chain upstream emissions. Ranking industries by total (direct + upstream) supply chain risk per economic output leads to different conclusions about the relative hazards associated with these industries than a conventional ranking based on emissions per economic output.In February 2003, European Union (EU) policy makers implemented a Directive that will make producers responsible for waste electrical and electronic equipment at end-of-life (known as the "WEE" Directive). Under this new legislation, producers are required to organ
ize and finance the take-back, treatment, and recycling of WEEE and achieve mass-based recycling and recovery targets. This legislation is part of a growing trend of extended producer responsibility for waste, which has the potential to shift the world's economies toward more circular patterns of resource use and recycling. This study uses life-cycle assessment and costing to investigate the possible environmental effects of the WEEE Directive, based on an example of printer recycling in the United Kingdom. For a total of four waste management scenarios and nine environmental impact categories investigated in this study, results varied, with no scenario emerging as best or worst overall compared to landflling. The level of environmental impact depended on the type of material and waste management processes involved. Additionally, under the broad mass-based targets of the WEEE Directive, the pattern of relationships between recycling rates, environmental impacts, and treatment and recycling costs may lead to unplanned and unwanted results. Contrary to original EU assumptions, the use of mass-based targets may not ensure that producers adapt the design of their products as intended under producer responsibility. It is concluded that the EU should revise the scope of consideration of the WEEE Directive to ensure its life-cycle impacts are addressed. In particular, specific environmental objectives and operating standards for treatment and recycling processes should be investigated as an alternative to mass-based recycling and recovery targets.This article presents a modeling framework that enhances our ability to analyze the implications of policy for future sustainability of industrial systems. The framework quantifies the relationship between physical input and waste flows, capital vintage, and investment behavior in the U.S. pulp and paper industry. A regional vintage model is developed that simultaneously incorporates investment decisions, vintage structure of the capital stock, and physical material and energy flows, in addition to paper demand. Each capital vintage is specified by size, output structure, and age-specific retirement rates, as well as fiber use and energy intensities. Both embodied and disembodied technological change are incorporated, as well as greenhouse gas emissions from fuel use, and decomposition and incineration of waste. Estimated equations are used to simulate industrial futures until 2020, from a system of nonlinear differential equations. Our results demonstrate the economic and physical interdependence between material and energy flows and the central role energy prices have in decision-making. For instance, an increase in average energy prices, ceteris paribus, will on average discourage paper recycling, which has implications for greenhouse gas emissions as well as for changes in energy intensity. The analysis of the data reveals diminishing rates of energy self-generation, and the immense longevity of capital, which hampers rapid change in input and carbon intensity. This stresses the importance of investment-led strategies in facilitating faster capital turnover to enhance future sustainability of the system.This paper presents a systems analysis perspective that extends the traditional process design framework to green process design and industrial ecology leading to sustainability. For green process de
sign this involves starting the design decisions as early as chemical and material selection stage on one end, and managing and planning decisions at the other end. However, uncertainties and multiple and conflicting objectives are inherent in such a design process. Uncertainties increase further in industrial ecology. Combining AI approaches with optimization methods, and constraining the system using thermodynamics and physics can provide a way to address this problem. The concept of overall sustainability goes beyond industrial ecology and brings in time dependent nature of the ecosystem and multi-disciplinary decision making. Optimal control methods and theories from financial literature can be useful in handling the time dependent uncertainties in this problem. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This article presents an overview of trends relevant for the long-term development of Rotterdam's port complex and resulting opportunities for this complex. These trends resulted from a literature review and conversations with 20 professors in fields relevant for port development. Nine trends that can be expected to become increasingly important in the next decades are discussed. These trends include the rise of manufacturing and logistics platforms, higher land efficiency, increasingly mixed land use in port areas, and rising importance of a "regional innovation system" in ports. Opportunities and concerns for the port of Rotterdam resulting from the trends are discussed.Increasingly, concepts such as sustainable development and ecological modernization have entered into local and regional economic policies and strategies. However, integrating environmental and economic aims has proved difficult, despite arguments that sustainability enables solutions. Eco-industrial development is a recent policy initiative that attempts to integrate economic, social and environmental aims in I concrete form. Derived from concepts of industrial ecology, eco-industrial developments seek to increase business competitiveness, reduce waste and pollution, create jobs, and improve working conditions. While these initiatives are said to offer a new basis for local and regional development, there has been little critical evaluation of eco-industrial development.Descriptions are given of the design and technical characteristics of a cassette dust trap.To prevent rapid climate change, it will be necessary to reduce net anthropogertic CO2 emissions drastically. This likely will require imposition of a tax or tradable permit scheme that creates a subsidy for negative emissions. Here, we examine possible niche markets in the cement and steel Industries where it is possible to generate a limited supply of negative emissions (carbon storage or sequestration) cost-effectively. Ca(OH)(2) and CaO from steel slag or concrete waste can be dissolved in water and reacted with CO2 in ambient air to capture and store carbon safely and permanently in the form of stable carbonate minerals (CaCO3). The kinetics of Ca dissolution for various particle size fractions of ground steel slag and concrete were measured in batch experiments. The majority of available Ca was found to dissolve on a time scale of hours, which was taken to be sufficiently fast for use in an industrial process. An overview of the management options for steel slag and concrete waste is presented, which indi
cates how their use for carbon sequestration might be integrated into existing industrial processes. Use of the materials in a carbon sequestration scheme does not preclude subsequent use and is likely to add value by removing the undesirable qualities of water absorption and expansion from the products. Finally, an example scheme is presented which could be built and operated with current technology; to sequester CO, with steel slag or concrete waste. Numerical models and simple calculations are used to establish the feasibility and estimate the operating parameters of the scheme. The operating cost is estimated to be US$8/t-CO2 sequestered. The scheme would be important as an early application of technology for capturing CO, directly from ambient air. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Telework (or telecommuting) has been proposed as a way of reducing transportation externalities such as congestion and passenger vehicle energy use. While there is contention among sources about the secondary induced transportation effects, many studies have estimated net benefits as a result of transportation reductions. Analyses including effects from shifts in commercial and residential building energy use, however, are not as visible. It is expected that commercial building energy use would decrease, and residential energy would increase as a result of telework adoption. We estimate macrolevel energy effects across these three energy intensive sectors (transportation, commercial, and residential buildings) to help characterize the potential of telework as a policy initiative to improve national energy efficiency. For current estimated teleworking populations and practices in the United States and Japan, we estimate national level energy savings of only 0.01-0.4% in the United States and 0.03-0.36% in Japan. In a future scenario with pervasive adoption of teleworking, where 50% of information workers telecommute 4 days per week, United States and Japan national energy savings are estimated at only about 1% in both cases. These energy savings are quite modest compared with currently available policy options to mitigate energy demand. By comparison, an improvement in average vehicle fuel efficiency of 20% would save 5.4% of total United States energy demand, suggesting that the direct benefits of adopting telework are relatively small given the large degree of behavioral and structural change required. Still, presuming that future work practices tend to favor greater adoption, the potential energy savings may merit direction towards environmentally beneficial implementation. If trends in the workplace favor more telework in the future, we suggest that maximizing environmental benefits merits greater attention to how telework is adopted. Obviously the increased number of avoided commutes is a factor, but more importantly, elimination of office space due to virtual offices yields energy savings that rival those from reduced commuting. Future analyses and implementation of telework should thus give greater attention to energy use in buildings and residences.The nature of the waste flows for durable goods are considered from the perspective of management options for inventory control if one wishes to use disposed durable goods as an input in the production of products. Television CRTs are used as an example, since they are a durable good and are the 
focus of recent regulation in many different countries. Inventory policy is found to be important, since there is great uncertainty in the quantity of product available both from year to year or within an actual year. Uncertainty in volume is not a problem, if only a small percentage of the waste stream is desired. Consequently, a strategy of postponement is recommended. However, if it is anticipated that a high percentage of the waste stream will be utilized, then inventory policy becomes more complex. Due to storage behavior, it is possible that a postponement policy may also be used by controlling disposal rates through encouraging or discouraging disposal at different times based on the need for material inputs. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier B.V.This paper focuses on the environmental component of sustainability of technology, taking into account the role of industrial ecology. Assessment of environmental sustainability of technology traditionally focuses on immediate impact of technology on the environment through quantifying resource extraction and generated emissions. However, technology does not only exchange materials with the environment but also with the industrial society as a whole, the so-called industrial metabolism. A higher compatibility of a specific technology with the industrial system, as studied in industrial ecology, can result in lower resource extraction and reduced waste emission, indirectly contributing to a better environmental sustainability. Starting from the considerations above and based on the second law of thermodynamics, the paper presents a set of five environmental sustainability indicators for the assessment of products and production pathways, integrating industrial ecology principles. The indicators, all scaled between 0 and 1, take into account: (1) renewability of resources; (2) toxicity of emissions; (3) input of used materials; (4) recoverability of products at the end of their use; (5) process efficiency. The applicability of the elaborated set of indicators is illustrated for different production pathways of alcohols (petrochemical and oleochemical based), polyethylene end-of-life options and electricity production from non-renewable (natural gas and fossil oil) and renewable resources (hydropower, photovoltaic conversion of solar irradiation). (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This article is building the theory for the scientific field of industrial ecology. For this, the industrial ecosystem (IE) concept is used. IE uses the model of sustainable ecosystems in unsustainable industrial systems for making progress towards the vision of the industrial ecosystem. Six controversies are revealed and identified as research challenges. I invite all those who are interested in industrial ecology to respond to this contribution.Industrial ecology and the industrial ecosystem approach (IE) are emerging concepts in ecological economics, environmental policy and corporate environmental management. The natural ecosystem model of diverse recycling and cascading material and energy flow systems has been used in industrial systems that are contrasting to this, operating with linear flows and unsustainable. Understanding the evolution of industrial systems over time toward sustainable or unsustainable ways of operating is important for learning about environmental performance analyses as well as for
 future planning of policy and management. The evolution over time of the Uimaharju forest industry park in Eastern Finland is studied. First, the system development is described by identifying the number of IE-type 'roundput' material and energy flows denoting waste utilisation and sustainable use of renewables. Second, development of the system over time is shown in terms of the number of the actors involved. This structural characteristic is termed system 'diversity'. Third, the relation of the two is considered. Fourth, the drivers of the case system development are discussed. Fifth, an initial effort is made to calculate some of the environmental effects of the system during its development. An increase in roundput and diversity over time is observed. Diversity is affecting roundput. The park tends to enlarge its activities outside the industrial park boundary over time. While the system illustrates high roundput and high diversity, we can only speculate if these characteristics contribute to sustainability, because of difficulties in system boundary definition. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Designs and characteristics are given for sleeve filters with explosion-protected design which have been developed by the NIIOGAZ.Several recent studies have shown that significant quantities of leaded wastes recovered from the disposal of television cathode ray tubes (CRTs) will be entering the waste stream over the next 50 years in a form that is ideal for post-consumer remanufacturing. Furthermore, numerous countries have recently enacted legislation requiring industrial systems to engage in the practice of industrial ecology by having all discarded, returned, or otherwise spent products from manufacturing processes become raw material inputs in subsequent manufacturing operations. Therefore legislation banning CRT disposal together with mandated remanufacturing requirements could lead to numerous potentially attractive business ventures for reprocessing and recycling the high lead content found in this waste. This paper examines inventory issues related to the effective management of these leaded CRT wastes and the nature of the waste flows is considered from the perspective of different management options for inventory control through the use of supply contracts. An effective inventory management policy is extremely important when there is great uncertainty and variability in the year-to-year or within-year quantity of product available - as is the case with the supply of CRT wastes. If it is anticipated that a high percentage of the waste stream will be utilized, then an effective inventory policy proves absolutely essential - but also proves to be an extremely complex process. Consequently, the supply contract approach can be employed to reconcile different pricing preferences with the varying delivery time horizons of different customers.This paper reviews the energy development strategy, impacts of industrialization to the ecological system, general principles of industrial ecology, and the challenge to electric machines systems.In the 1980s, the concept of sustainable economic development emerged to try to deal with the complex and pervasive aspects of the environmental problem. However, an ecological perspective of sustainability requires taking a holistic approach that uses the ecosphere as a frame of reference. This pape
r describes the anthroposystem model that philosophically views the notion of sustainability in terms of a human-ecological system functioning within the ecosphere with some considerations on its implications.For many years, the problem to be resolved by those charged with achieving local economic development has been 'How does this locality become competitive against other localities?' The processes of economic and spatial integration, understood generally as globalisation, have only served to broaden the definition of those localities that could be described as competitors. Equally, the policy prescriptions that surround this discourse follow an internal logic dominated by market liberalisation in the context of creating some form of competitive advantage over other localities. The research and policy-making process involves scouring the world for examples of best practice to measure, codify, emulate and transfer. Inevitably, under this conceptualisation, most localities are doomed to fail. More recently, the concept of eco-industrialisation has come into prominence as a means to achieve sustainable local development, but again the discourse is one dominated by place promotion and a narrowly determinist interpretation of the ecology metaphor. That is, eco-industrialism as local development has been difficult to distinguish from other forms of place promotion. This paper argues that sustainable local development requires an innovative discourse predicated on the ecological metaphors of diversity, difference and 'fit' with unique local characterisations. It is a discourse that must reach beyond the confines of contemporary economic rationality, and in so doing lay the foundations for a radically redefined concept of local development.Purpose - Green supply chain management (GSCM) has emerged as a key approach for enterprises seeking to become environmentally sustainable. This paper aims to evaluate and describe GSCM drivers, practices and performance among various Chinese manufacturing organizations. Design/methodology/approach - Based on a literature review, four propositions are put forward. An empirical study using survey research was completed. The survey questionnaire was designed with 54 items using literature and industry expert input. An exploratory factor analysis was conducted to derive groupings of GSCM pressures, practice and performance from the survey data which included 314 responses. A categorical and descriptive nature of the results is then presented with an evaluation and comparative analysis with previous research findings. Findings - Chinese enterprises have increased their environmental awareness due to regulatory, competitive, and marketing pressures and drivers. However, this awareness has not been translated into strong GSCM practice adoption, let alone into improvements in some areas of performance, where it was expected. Research limitations/implications - The investigation and its findings are still relatively exploratory. Future research can investigate relationships identified in this work, as well as tease out mediating and moderating relationships. A more broadly-based and random sample study across China would also provide a better picture of this GSCM situation. Practical implications - Efforts made by Chinese enterprises together with the Chinese government have established a good foundation for further 
development. After China's entry into the WTO, a win-win relationship between foreign companies and Chinese manufacturers is still possible. Green supply chain management 449 Received March 2003 Revised September 2004 Accepted November 2004This paper considers the potential contribution of Industrial Symbiosis (IS) networks in fostering environmental innovation at the local or regional level. Drawing on literature from innovation studies and innovation in spatial proximity, we outline three factors that are important for the innovation process and identify where the effects from IS networks can be explored. We use observations from the first IS programme in Sweden to provide examples of previously hypothesised effects. The implications of this inquiry are discussed in terms of design and development of IS programmes and for further research into the innovation effect of IS networks. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper is a progress report on the development of an undergraduate course in environmental design and manufacturing. The importance of the topic is clear from National Academy of Engineering statements regarding the need to incorporate content on sustainable technology. The multidisciplinary team includes academic faculty from engineering, science, liberal studies, and business in collaboration with industry partners. The team's approach is to create a case-based course by adapting existing educational modules from Ford Motor Company. The group has received National Science Foundation funding for this project (DUE-0511322), and the project is currently in its beginning phases.Power system generation scheduling has been an active research area over the years because of its significant economic and environmental impact Better planning and optimum operation of electric power generation systems will not only reduce the cost of the operation but also the consumption of natural resources, improve industrial ecology, and protect the environment. The objective of this project is to develop an efficient and realistic algorithm to handle generation scheduling of large power systems with the following characteristics: ( 1) largeness (with respect to time and states); (2) mixed (integer and real) variables; (3) nonlinearity; and (4) uncertain environments. A mathematical model for the scheduling problem is formulated. This model is to minimize the total fuel cost (coal or oil) of a power system, subject to the power balance, hydro generation, reservoir dynamics, and other bound constraints. Recurrent Artificial Neural Networks are used for load forecasting, and parallel processing is used to solve the scheduling problem.In this paper, we firstly analyze status quo of Wuhan's industrial structure from some related datum, and define its stage of development as the middle and late period. We construct an ecological evaluation index system of industry by using the method of AHP. And then, we compare wuhan with shanghai in collecting some useful and reliable datum, and using this evaluation index system. On the basis of results analysis, we propose the train of thought on developing circulation economy in Wuhan in four aspects, such as ecological circulation mode of industry, developing economizing economy, technical support system, circulation economy mode, etc.Access to resources and energy, but also policy and historical develo
pment, shape the industrial structure of countries. This implies that some countries specialize in energy-intensive and pollution-intensive products. National environmental regulation and international agreements are also expected to shape the global patterns of production, as the concern about "carbon-leakage" under the Kyoto Protocol indicates. Most empirical investigations of the energy and pollution embodied in trade have assumed that imports are produced with the same technology as exports. These investigations were able to reflect differences in the composition of imports and exports, but not differences in pollution control technology, efficiency, or energy mix. We calculate the energy and pollution embodied in trade for Norway, taking into account the energy and pollution intensity of important trading partners. Our investigations indicate that Norwegian exports are more energy intensive than imports. In contrast, due to Norways energy mix and technology, Norwegian exports are often less pollution intensive than imports. This leads us to the hypothesis that, for the case of Norway, there are environmental benefits from trade and a specialization in energy-intensive production is environmentally preferable.The present work is based on the application of Industrial Ecology with the vision of the solid waste management in a medium size lumber company. This organization this located in the municipal district of Ponta Grossa, State of Parana, south of Brazil. The sawmill's activity is the production of fences from reforested pine, that are destined to the North American and European markets. The daily amount of residues generated in the production process is of approximately 50m(3), generating a monthly volume of 1200m(3). The fact of not practicing a segregation process of the residues makes this reuse unfeasible for processes such as the production of OSB and MDF in local industries. A great amount of this material is dispersed in an open field at the sawmill's perimeter and set fire to without producing any benefits. This only brings safety risks to the low-income population that lives in the neighborhood and also a great amount of pollution, due to smoke that is dispersed over the area that is constituted by low-income residences. The objective of this work was in finding an economical solution that reduced the environmental pollution via the vision of Industrial Ecology. The results found result were the generation of electric power in a local thermo-electrical facility. Utilizing domestically produced cellulose-derived ethanol for the light-duty vehicle fleet can potentially improve the environmental performance and sustainability of the transport and energy sectors of the economy. A life cycle assessment model was developed to examine environmental implications of the production and use of ethanol in automobiles in Ontario, Canada. The results were compared to those of low-sulfur reformulated gasoline (RFG) in a functionally equivalent automobile. Two time frames were evaluated, one near-term (2010), which examines converting a dedicated energy crop (switchgrass) and an agricultural residue (corn stover) to ethanol; and one midterm (2020), which assumes technological improvements in the switchgrass-derived ethanol life cycle. Near-term results show that, compared to a RFG automobile, life cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are
 57% lower for an E85-fueled automobile derived from switchgrass and 65% lower for ethanol from corn stover, on a grams of CO2 equivalent per kilometer basis. Corn stover ethanol exhibits slightly lower life cycle GHG emissions, primarily due to sharing emissions with grain production. Through projected improvements in crop and ethanol yields, results for the mid-term scenario show that GHG emissions could be 25-35% lower than those in 2010 and that, even with anticipated improvements in RFG automobiles, E85 automobiles could still achieve up to 70% lower GHG emissions across the life cycle.Appreciating the reliance of industrial networks on natural capital is a necessary step toward their sustainable design and operation. However, most contemporary accounting techniques, including engineering economics, life cycle assessment, and full cost accounting, fail in this regard, as they take natural capital for granted and concentrate mainly on the economic aspects and emissions. The recently developed "thermodynamic input-output analysis" (TIOA) includes the contribution of ecological goods, ecosystem services, human resources, and impact of emissions in an economic input-output model. This paper uses TIOA to determine the throughputs of natural and economic capitals along industrial supply networks. The ratios of natural to economic capitals of economic sectors reveals a hierarchical organization of the U.S. economy wherein basic infrastructure industries are at the bottom and specialized value-added industries constitute the top. These results provide novel insight into the reliance of specific industrial sectors and supply chains on natural capital and the corresponding economic throughput. Such insight is useful for understanding the implications of corporate restructuring on industrial sustainability metrics and of outsourcing of business activities on outsourcer, outsourcee, and global sustainability. These implications are discussed from the standpoints of weak and strong sustainability paradigms. The calculated ratios can also be used for hybrid thermodynamic life cycle assessment.Current awareness of environmental pollution of animal production in Western Europe has triggered research on development of environmental indicators at farm level. Only when the environmental impact of commercial farms can be quantified effectively, important differences in impact can be demonstrated among contrasting systems, which subsequently can contribute to reducing the environmental impact from animal production. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of environmental indicators derived from three methods used widely in animal production, i.e., input-output accounting, ecological footprint analysis and life cycle assessment (LCA). Evaluation of the effectiveness of indicators was based on an assessment of their relevance, quality and availability of data. Such a systematic evaluation of these environmental indicators has never been performed yet. To evaluate the effectiveness of the 13 environmental indicators, data from eight organic, commercial dairy farms in the Netherlands were used. Results show that indicators derived from input-output accounting are effective, because of their high relevance, good quality and easy availability of data. These indicators, however, do not include all environmental impact categories (e.g
., land use, energy use, global warming potential), and focus on on-farm emission. The environmental indicator derived from ecological footprint analysis is not effective for land and fossil energy use, because of its limited relevance and low quality, whereas LCA resource-based indicators are effective because of their high relevance, good quality and availability of data. LCA indicators for global warming, acidification and eutrophication potential are effective also, because of their good relevance and good quality. Data of these LCA indicators are difficult to collect. To give a good insight into the environmental impact of a dairy production system, besides input-output accounting indicators, LCA indicators are required. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Long-living wood products can contribute to the mitigation of climate change in many ways. On the one hand, they act as a carbon pool during their service life, as they withdraw CO(2) from its natural cycle. After their service life, they can substitute for fossil fuels if they are incinerated in adequate furnaces. On the other hand, wood products can substitute for more energy intense products made of `conventional' materials. This paper quantifies the substitution and carbon pool effects of an increased use of wood in the building sector in Switzerland for the years 2000 - 2130. For this purpose, life cycle data on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of 12 wood products and their substitutes is used as proxies for the most important groups of building products used in construction and in interior works; this data is linked to the forecasted wood flows for each group of building products in a cohort-model. For the political assessment, GHG effects occurring abroad are distinguished from GHG effects occurring in Switzerland. The results show that the C-pool effect of an increased use of wood products with long service life is of minor importance; the substitution effects associated with the thermal use of industrial and post-consumer waste wood as well as with the substitution of `conventional' materials are much more relevant, especially on a long-term. For construction materials, the Swiss share of the GHG effect related to the material substitution is relatively high, as mainly nationally produced concrete, mineral wool, and bricks are substituted for. For products used in interior works, the Swiss share of the GHG effect related to the material substitution is rather small (or even negative for single products) because mainly imports are substituted, such as ceramic tiles or steel produced in the EU. The results are rough estimates. Nonetheless, these calculations show that an increased use of wood in the building sector is a valid and valuable option for the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions and for reaching GHG emission targets on a mid- to long-term basis. Still, the carbon storage and substitution capacity of an increased use of wood is relatively small compared to the overall greenhouse gas emissions of Switzerland.A life cycle analysis performed on biogas co- or tri-generation units shows that the environmental impact depends on the fraction of heat (or cold) used, the distance for crops collection, the efficiencies of the unit and on the NOx emissions. A high efficiency unit (eta(el) = 0.4 and eta(g) = 0.8) and low NOx content (80 mg/N m(3)) based on 20 km crops c
ollection will save CO2 emissions and act in a CO2 sink resulting in one of the very few technologies capable of reducing atmospheric CO2 concentration. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Water reclamation and reuse is playing an increasingly important role in sustainable water resources management. But is water reuse sustainable? To be sustainable, a water reuse project must serve its long-term functional roles without shifting environmental burdens to future generations or producing adverse socio-economic effects. In this paper, we review sustainability assessment methods to aid decision makers in comparing alternative systems, improving environmental performance, and tracking progress toward sustainability. We discuss concerns regarding long-term environmental effects of water reuse systems, including energy demands, impacts on irrigated land, and accumulation and health effects of trace contaminants. We also suggest socio-economic considerations that are key to maintaining long-term benefits of water reuse systems.This paper constitutes a continuation of "Alternative scenarios analysis concerning different types of fuels used for the coverage of the energy requirements of a typical apartment building in Thessaloniki, Greece. Part 1: fuel consumption and emissions". It is concerned with the application of life cycle analysis (LCA) methodology to the model of the apartment building determined in Part I. The examination here includes emissions of light heating oil EL refining, transportation and combustion, of natural gas transportation and combustion and of electricity generation and use (lignite, natural gas, diesel oil and kerosene originated). All data used were collected from a typical power station in Greece. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.When is it better to retrofit a building as opposed to demolishing and rebuilding it? Life cycle environmental and economic analyses are used to address this question through the study of a typical four bedroom detached house in Toronto. Three vintages of the reference house are used: 1930s solid masonry; 1960s wood frame; and post oil crisis, 1980s wood frame. Retrofit studies considered include insulating the attic and basement walls and air leakage sealing. Over a 40-year life cycle, the rebuild option has lower life cycle energy, global warming potential, and air pollution, which are predominantly associated with building operation. But the retrofit options have lower water pollution, solid waste generation, and weighted resource use, associated with material flows. The retrofit options also have lower life cycle economic costs than rebuilding. In this respect, the preferred options are basement plus air leakage sealing retrofit for the 1930s house, basement retrofit for the 1960s house, and no change for 1980s house. There are ways to overcome the trade-off in negative environmental impacts between retrofitting and rebuilding, such as use of renewable energy sources or re-use and recycling of deconstruction and demolition materials in new construction.This paper presents the results of evaluation ofbiogas generation from cattle manure, under German conditions, and conversion of biogas to electricity using energetic and life cycle analysis, A range of capacities from about 70 to 250 kW for digester and co-generation set are considered including benefits for heat utilizatio
n. It is found that the energy balance without heat benefits would be 40 to 140 times the energy input. Within the LCA selected environmental categories, CO2-reduction potentials, cost of CO2-equivalent-reduction, internal and external costs and energetic payback periods are computed and discussed.A key challenge in attaining regional sustainability is to reduce both the direct and the indirect environmental impacts associated with economic and household activity in the region. Knowing what these flows are and how they change over time is a prerequisite for this task. This article describes the early development of an integrated regional materials flow accounting framework The framework is based on a hybrid (material and economic) multiregional input-output model. Using readily available economic and materials data sets together with transport and logistics data, the framework attempts to provide estimates of household resource flows for any U.K. region at quite detailed levels of product and material disaggregation. It is also capable of disaggregating these flows according to specific socioeconomic criteria such as income level or occupation of the head of household. Allied to appropriate energy and life-cycle assessment data sets, the model could, in addition, be used to map both direct and indirect environmental impacts associated with these flows. The benefits of such an approach are likely to be a considerable reduction of uncertainties in ( 1) our knowledge of the household metabolism, and hence our predictions of regional household waste generation; (2) our assessment of the impacts of contemplated changes in industrial process siting, and thereby on other aspects of local and regional planning; and (3) our understanding of the impacts of changes in the pattern of demand for different materials and products. It is concluded that the use of such an integrated assessment tool has much to contribute to the debate on regional sustainability.This article describes the integration of life-cycle assessment methods with a new input-output model of the world economy to analyze the environmental and economic implications of alternative future diets. The article reviews findings by industrial ecologists about the energy and land required for the production and consumption of alternative foods and diets in several European countries. It also reviews attributes of foods and diets identified by nutritionists as reducing the risks of obesity and major chronic diseases related to the diets of the affluent. The predominantly plant-based Mediterranean-type diet emerges as a dietary scenario that could satisfy both sets of concerns. The likely implications for, agriculture and for farm policies of a shift toward this diet from the current average diet in the United States are discussed and shown to be substantial. The one-country studies reviewed in the article provide substantial insights into the potential ramifications of dietary change. Many of the limitations of these studies could be overcome by conducting the analysis in a global framework that represented the relationships among consumption, production, and trade and the physical constraints within which they operate. Analysis of the environmental and economic implications of alternative scenarios describing healthy diets can help stimulate more intensive dialogue, debate, and action among t
he interested parties; such analysis can both benefit from and contribute to initiatives such as the World Health Organization's global strategy on diet and health, which intends to enlist the support of governments, corporations, and civil society.This article describes a method for determining the environmental load of Dutch private consumption. The method generates detailed information about consumption-related envronmental impacts. The environmental load of households (direct) and production (indirect) was determined for 360 expenditure categories reported in the Dutch Expenditure Survey. The indirect environmental load was calculated with linked input-output tables covering worldwide production and trade. The environmental load per Euro turnover of industries was linked to consumer expenditures. With this method we can quantify several types of environmental load per expenditure category and per economic production region. It was found that food production, room heating, and car use are the most important elements in the environmental load of Dutch private consumption. The impacts taking place abroad were-with the exception of emission of greenhouse gases and road traffic noise-found to be larger than domestic impacts. Most land use was found to take place in developing (non-OECD) countries, whereas most emissions occur in industrialized (OECD) countries.Inventory analysis of manufacturing system for both former Pb-free bronze made from virgin materials and new Pb-free bronze made by removing Pb from scrap Pb-bronze was assessed from the view point of life cycle assessment (LCA). The result shows that new manufacturing system of Pb-free bronze made by removing Pb from scrap Pb-bronze reduces such environmental impacts as global warming, acidification, energy consumption, resource consumption significantly. Thus, in LCA perspective, the new manufacturing system using a recycling Pb-free bronze is superior to the former one using virgin materials.To promote the recycling of copper alloy scrap, we developed a new technique for removing Pb from copper alloy scrap containing 2-6 mass% Pb. However, we must evaluate quantitatively the level of environmental impact reduction that can be obtained using this new technology. In this study, a manufacturing system that produces Pb-free copper alloy products using copper alloy scrap was assessed by means of life cycle assessment (LCA). The superiority of the new manufacturing system that uses Pb-free copper alloy scrap over the conventional one that uses virgin materials was investigated from the viewpoint of environmental impact. LCA software (JEMAI-LCA) was used to assess environmental impacts such as global warming, acidification, energy Consumption and resource consumption. We assessed the raw material acquisition and casting process of Pb-free copper alloy products. The subsequent processes such as machining. assembling, transportation, use and recycling/waste processing are not taken into account in the environmental impact assessment. The results show that the conversion of the conventional system that uses virgin materials into the new one that uses Pb-free copper alloy scrap decreases the environmental impact, significantly. This is attributed to the nonutilization of virgin materials and the decrease in energy consumption during the casting process.Fires in residential and commercial pro
perties are not uncommon. If such fires involve the roof, photovoltaic arrays mounted on the roof will be exposed to the flames. The amount of cadmium that call be released in fires involving CdTe PV and the magnitude of associated health risks has been debated. The current study aims in delineating this issue. Previous thermogravimetric studies of CdTe, involved pure CdTe and single-glass PV modules. The current study is based on glass-glass CdTe PV modules which are the only ones in the market. Pieces of commercial CdTe photovoltaic (PV) modules, sizes 25 x 3 cm, were heated to temperatures up to 1100 degrees C to simulate exposure to residential and commercial building fires. The temperature rate and duration in these experiments were defined according to standard protocols. Four different types of analysis were performed to investigate emissions and redistribution of elements in the matrix of heated CdTe PV modules: (1) measurements of sample weight loss as a function of temperature; (2) analyses of Cd and Te in the gaseous emissions; (3) Cd distribution in the heated glass using synchrotron X-ray fluorescence microprobe analysis; and (4) chemical analysis for Cd and Te in the acid-digested glass. These experiments showed that almost all (i.e., 99-5%) of the cadmium content of CdTe PV modules was encapsulated in the molten glass matrix; a small amount of Cd escaped from the perimeter of the samples before the two sheets of glass melted together. Adjusting for this loss in full-size modules, results in 99-96% retention of Cd. Multiplying this with the probability of occurrence for residential fires in wood-frame houses in the US (e.g., 10(-4)), results in emissions of 0-06mg/GWh; the probability of sustained fires and subsequent emissions in adequately designed and maintained utility systems appears to be zero. Published in 2005 by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Stainless steels are corrosion resistant alloys which are widely used in consumer goods and industrial equipments. Stainless steels contain scarce and energy intensive elements such as Ni, Cr, Mo, etc. So, closed loop recycling is preferable for sustainable production of stainless steel. However, some parts of stainless steel are not separate from ordinal steel scraps in recycling processes and not recycled as "stainless steel". The objective of this study is to analyze the dynamic material flow of stainless steels in Japan and assess CO2 emissions reduction potentials by promotion of closed loop recycling of stainless steels in the future. First, the authors analyzed material balance of input elements, i.e. Fe, Ni and Cr, in the production of stainless steels in 2002 to figure out the material flow of stainless steel which can not be obtained from statistics. The amount of post-consumer stainless steel that would come into society in the future was estimated by PBM (Population Balance Model). It was found that only 2% of post-consumer stainless steel of Fc-Cr alloys was collected as stainless steel scraps and the rest was collected as ordinal steel scrap. On the other hand, approximately 95% of post-consumer stainless steel of Fe-Ni-Cr alloys was collected as stainless steel scraps. CO2 emissions reduction potential by the increase of 1% in closed loop recycling of stainless steel scraps of Fe-Cr alloys was estimated at 75000 t/year by using LCA.This paper presents the Life-Cycle Asse
ssment (LCA) of alternative building materials from forest resource regeneration or mineral extraction through product manufacturing, the assembly of products in constructing a residential home, Occupancy and home repairs, and the eventual disposal or recycle. A unique feature of this study's LCA framework is that temporal distribution of events and associated environmental effects during the seed to demolition life cycle were considered by extending the scope to include forest growth through to demolition of the builidng. Our approach was to first conduct LCIs that quantified the energy, resource use, and emissions associated with a particular product, service, or activity. We followed this activity with the assessment of the house, and investigated the potential environmental consequences of energy and resource consumption and waste emissions. Finally we identified improvement opportunities for future research.This study compares the cradle-to-gate total energy and major emissions for the extraction of raw materials, production, and transportation of the common wood building materials from the CORRIM 2004 reports. A life-cycle inventory produced the raw materials, including fuel resources and emission to air, water, and land for glued-laminated timbers, kiln-dried and green softwood lumber, laminated veneer lumber, softwood plywood, and oriented strandboard. Major findings from these comparisons were that the production of wood products, by the nature of the industry, uses a third of their energy consumption from renewable resources and the remainder from fossil-based, non-renewable resources when the system boundaries consider forest regeneration and harvesting, wood products and resin production, and transportation life-cycle stages. When the system boundaries are reduced to a gate-to-gate (manufacturing life-cycle stage) model for the wood products, the biomass component of the manufacturing energy increases to nearly 50% for most products and as high as 78% for lumber production from the Southeast. The manufacturing life-cycle stage consumed the most energy over all the products when resin is considered part of the production process. Extraction of log resources and transportation of raw materials for production had the least environmental impact.To perform a life-cycle analysis, a life-cycle inventory is needed. Data from surveys of manufacturers are presented for the energy and materials required to produce 1.623 m(3) (1 mbf) of planed, dry, dimension lumber from logs in the western and southern U.S. In the West and South, 53 and 41 % of the log volume (3.05 and 3.92 m(3)) leaves the mill as planed, dry dimension lumber, respectively. A much greater portion of the energy used for production in the South is produced on site from wood fuels. CO2 emissions were greater in the South because of the wood fuel, 574 kg versus 419 kg per 1.623 m(3) produced.A life-cycle inventory (LCI) Study is conducted of softwood plywood manufacturing. This gate-to-gate study includes all materials, fuels, and electricity inputs to produce plywood, co-products and emissions. Data were collected through surveys of manufacturing facilities in the Pacific Northwest and the Southeast. SimaPro software, a program to conduct life-cycle inventory studies, is used to process the data and determine environmental impacts in terms of material use and emissions. Th
e data are allocated on a mass basis to plywood based on their contribution to the mass sum of all product and co-products. All data are provided on a production unit basis of 1.0 m(3) and 1.0 MSF 3/8-inch basis, the U.S. industry standard. In addition to LCI data, carbon flow data are also given. The LCI data are publicly available through reports, this publication, and the U.S. LCI Database Project. The data are useful for generating cradle-to-gate product LCIs when combined with the LCIs to produce logs for the mills and material transportation impacts, and are useful as a benchmark for assessing process performance, for conducting life-cycle analysis of wall, floor, and roof assemblies consisting of plywood and other products, and of residential structures.A life-cycle inventory (LCI) study is conducted of wood composite 1-joists manufacturing. This gate-to-gate study includes all materials, fuels, and electricity inputs to produce 1-joists, co-products, and emissions. The inputs included the laminated veneer lumber (LVL) used for the 1-joists flanges and the oriented strandboard (OSB) used for the web, but it excluded the LCI for their input logs. Data were collected through Surveys Of Manufacturing facilities in the Pacific Northwest and the Southeast. In addition to LCI data, transportation distances for delivery of materials are also provided. SimaPro software, a program to conduct life-cycle inventory and assessment Studies, is used to process the data and determine environmental impacts in terms of material and energy use, and emissions. The impact data are allocated on a mass basis to 1-joist based on their mass contribution to the sum of all product and co-product generated during the manufacturing process. All data are provided on a production unit basis of 1.0 km and 1.0 MLF (one thousand linear feet), the U.S. industry practice. In addition to LCI data, carbon How data are also given. These LCI data are publicly available through comprehensive reports, this summary publication, and the U.S. Life-Cycle Inventory Database Project. The data are useful for generating cradle-to-gate product LCIs when combined with the LCIs to produce logs for the mills and material transportation impacts, and are useful as a benchmark for assessing process performance, and for conducting life-cycle analysis of floor and roof assemblies and residential Structures using 1-joists.The study utilized the results from a life-cycle assessment (LCA) of housing construction to analyze forest products' role in energy displacement and carbon cycling. It analyzed the behavior of three carbon pools associated with forest products: the forest, forest products, and fossil fuel displaced by forest products in end-use markets. The LCA provided data that allowed us to create an accounting system that tracked carbon from sequestration to substitution in forest product end-use markets. The accounts are time-dependent since the size of the carbon pools is influenced by harvest timing; hence the size of each pool is estimated under alternative harvesting scenarios and presented over time. The analysis of the alternative harvesting scenarios resulted in shorter harvest cycles and provided the largest carbon pools when all three pools were considered together. The study concluded that forest products led to a significant reduction in atmospheric carbon by displacing mo
re fossil fuel-intensive products in housing construction. The result has important policy implications since any incentive to manage forest lands to produce a greater amount of forest products would likely increase the share of lands positively contributing to a reduction of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.This paper deals with improvement on environmental significant activities related to the life supporting function "building and housing", using life cycle assessment. In the calculation, back-casting technique is utilised and implies to a future scenario, based on known technology. Besides heating, wastewater treatment is a significant issue, according to the definition of building and housing function practised. The main conclusions from the assessment are that rebuilding is an environmentally better choice than the construction of a new building, if the same essential environmentally related functional performance is achieved. Furthermore, the case study and the national estimates performed prove that the potential environmental impact can be reduced by about 70% for the heating service and 75% for the wastewater system, if the suggested measures are performed. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Since buildings have considerable impacts on the environment, it has become necessary to pay more attention to environmental performance in building design. However, it is a difficult task to find better design alternatives satisfying several conflicting criteria, especially, economical and environmental performance. This paper presents a multi-objective optimization model that could assist designers in green building design. Variables in the model include those parameters that are usually determined at the conceptual design stage and that have critical influence on building performance. Life cycle analysis methodology is employed to evaluate design alternatives for both economical and environmental criteria. Life cycle environmental impacts are evaluated in terms of expanded cumulative exergy consumption, which is the sum of exergy consumption due to resource inputs and abatement exergy required to recover the negative impacts due to waste emissions. A multi-objective genetic algorithm is employed to find optimal solutions. A case study is presented and the effectiveness of the approach is demonstrated for identifying a number of Pareto optimal solutions for green building design. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper deals with a global environmental analysis of the integration of renewable energy-wind energy, photovoltaic energy and hydro-power-with different desalination technologies--Multi-Stage Flash, Multi-Effect Distillation and Reverse Osmosis. This paper continues the way of a research work, whose main aim consists on performing the environmental assessment, by means of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) technique, of different desalination technologies in order to establish with a broad perspective and in a rigorous and objective way the technology provoking lower environmental load. The software SimaPro 6.0, developed by Dutch PRe Consultants, has been used as the LCA analysis tool, and three different evaluation methods-CML 2 baseline 2000, Eco-Points 97 and Eco-Indicator 99-have been applied.Sustainability has been enshrined as a goal of society to ensure that the satisfaction of present needs does not comp
romise the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It is thus a social objective, achievable only where all areas of society co-operate in fulfilling the associated demands. Ecological sustainability is, in turn, a basic prerequisite for sustainable economic and social development. The first step in formulating an effective response to this challenge, focused solely on the environmental issues, entails a quantification of the contribution required from the various areas of human activity for the achievement of sustainable development. Without binding sub-targets for the different sectors, it will be all but impossible to move systematically towards a sustainable society. These benchmarks for sustainable construction therefore set out to define the requirements to be met by buildings and structures in contributing to the achievement of a sustainable society. The permissible impact of buildings, in terms of energy demand and pollutant loads, during construction, maintenance and operation is determined. The analysis focuses on identifying the permissible levels of loads based on the specific energy consumption per in 2 and year for heating, hot water, electricity and construction. A conscious attempt is made to combine existing methods with the general political consensus by taking account of: the ecological scarcity method [G. Brand, A. Scheidegger, O. Schwank, A. Braunschweig, Bewertung in Okobilanzen mit der Methode der okologischen Knappheit (Life cycle analysis using ecological scarcity method), Environmental Publication no. 297, Swiss Agency for the Environment, Forests and Landscape (SAEFL), 1997] used to define critical pollutant loads: the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions specified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC) [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change 2001, IPCC Third Assessment Report, www.grida.no/climate/ipcc_tar/]: the demands of the 2000 W society [Leichter leben - Ein Verstandnis fur unsere Ressourcen als Schlussel zu einer nachhaltigen Entwicklung - die 2000-Watt-Gesellschaft (Easier living - understanding our resources as the key to sustainable development - they resources. 2000 Watt society), novatlanis, sia, energieschweiz, January 2005] for the conservation of energy The study shows that buildings designed to the Passive House standard just about comply with the requirements for sustainable construction, provided electricity generation is based largely on renewable or low-CO2 resources (Swiss power supply mix). The targets are substantially harder to meet where mainly fossil-fuel-generated electricity (European supply mix UCTE) is used. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.v. All rights reserved.The bio-mechanical treatment of Municipal Solid Waste is an increasing option in Europe either as a pre-treatment before landfilling or as a pre-treatment before combustion. The present work deals with the problem of assessment of significant data related to emissions to air from bio-mechanical treatments. Reliable data are necessary for the development of: a) Life Cycle Assessment studies; b) verification of compliance with existing regulations; c) environmental impact studies assessment. In order to point out some lack of knowledge about bio-mechanical treatments, some results of a Life Cycle Assessment study on Municipal Solid Waste bio-stabilization treatment have been reported a
nd analysed. Indeed, during the development of that Life Cycle Assessment, some problems were found regarding the availability and the quality of emission data from Municipal Solid Waste mechanical biological treatment. Concerning existing regulations, in Europe we can find both countries with enhanced approaches, and countries with a soft approach. In the second case, for instance, a few Italian regions adopted local regulations in order to improve the quality of the environmental regulation as the national one has been considered inadequate. The environmental impact assessment of bio-mechanical treatments is not still as developed as options such as incineration. The reason is that the impact of a bio-mechanical treatment plant is considered low. On the contrary it can be demonstrated that a greater attention must be paid in the case of non optimised technologies and large plants.The environmental impacts of fishing go well beyond their direct effect on targeted stocks and associated ecosystem components and functions. Here we employ life cycle assessment (LCA) to quantify the scale and importance of emissions that result from the range of industrial activities associated with contemporary Spanish purse seine fisheries for Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) and Yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tunas. Our analysis encompassed operational inputs to fishing activities along with major inputs to vessel construction and maintenance and post-harvest transport of carcasses to ports in Galicia, Spain. Data were acquired from fishing operations based in each of the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans, permitting the characterization of both average and basin of origin-specific environmental impacts. Our results indicate that the production and use of diesel fuel while fishing accounts for more than half of the total impacts in six of the seven impact categories analyzed. After fuel inputs, post-harvest transport of carcasses made substantial contributions to each of the environmental dimensions evaluated. In contrast, the use of anti-fouling paint only made a substantial contribution to marine eco-toxicity potential. Comparing the performance of fisheries in the three oceans, Pacific-based operations resulted in the highest emissions across all impact categories modelled. This was largely the result of markedly higher fuel consumption rates together with relatively long post-harvest transport distances. Finally, we modelled two scenarios to quantify the environmental benefits associated with improving tuna abundance and availability. In doing so, we found that efforts to rebuild stocks, particularly in the Atlantic Ocean would not only help reverse the decline of aquatic ecosystems but could result in improvements in the environmental performance of the Spanish tuna fishery. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Knowledge of the environmental impact of the materials and processes typically used in a specific industrial sector is a key factor in enabling companies to improve their products from an environmental perspective and thus expedite their introduction into the growing market for "green" products. Environmental factors should be taken into account at the earliest possible stage of product development and design. The establishment of criteria for selecting materials with low environmental impact during the design of wood-based furniture design
 is an important aspect for furniture manufacture. This article presents an analysis of the environmental impact of the materials and processes typically used in the wood-based furniture manufacturing sector in Turkey. A life-cycle assessment methodology (LCA) was applied to different kinds of wood-based panels, surface and edge treatments, and their respective manufacturing processes. For each of these, a life-cycle inventory was completed and the environmental impact generated was summarized by applying the Eco-Indicator'99 method. According to the results, standard particleboard had an environmental impact lower than standard fiberboard (72% improvement). For surface and edge finishes, a low-density laminate is preferred to a high-density laminate (36% improvement).A future fusion reactor will use deuterium and tritium as fuel. The former is found in abundance in seawater, while the latter is not available naturally due to its short lifetime. Present developments in the context of fusion propose generating tritium in a blanket based on the reaction n + (6)Li -> T + He. This paper will review the issue of the reserves and resources of lithium as the fuel for fusion energy. We describe the available reserves and resources and their chemical forms. We analyze the present production and consumption for industrial uses, completing this over-view by referring to a life cycle analysis in the case of the lithium production from brine. The lithium extraction from seawater is also described. Taking into account the previous data and the requirements estimated for fusion plants, we propose scenarios for future lithium consumption, and we conclude on the lithium availability over the next centuries dealing with the different hypothesis considered. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Coal, Scope and Background. In industrialized Countries such as the Netherlands, the concentration Of Pollutants originating from building materials in the indoor environment his shown art increasing trend during the last decades due to improved isolation and decreased ventilation of dwellings. These pollutants may give rise to negative impacts on human health, ranging from irritation to tumours. However, such negative impacts oil health are not included ill Current life cycle assessments of dwellings. In this Study, damages to the health Of Occupants caused by a number of organic compounds and by radioactivity emitted by building materials, including those due to indoor exposure, have been calculated for a number of categories of common building materials. The total damage to human health due to emissions occurring in the use phase of the Dutch reference dwelling is compared with the total damage to human health associated with the rest of the life cycle of the same dwelling. Methods. Human health damage scores per kilogram Of building material for compartments of the Dutch reference dwelling hive been calculated using the methodology described ill part I of this research. This Methodology includes the calculation of the fate, effect and damage factors, based oil disability adjusted life years (DALYs), and has been applied assuming average concentrations Of Pollutants in building materials. Damage scores for health impacts of exposure to Pollutants emitted during the production and the disposal phase Of the same building materials were calculated using standard
 LCIA methodology. Results and Discussion. Human health damage scores due to emissions Of Pollutants Occurring in the use phase Of building materials applied at the first or second floor are Lip to 20 times lower or higher than the corresponding damage scores associated with the rest of the life cycle of the same building materials. The damage scores due to emissions Occurring ill the use Phase Of building materials applied in the crawlspace are tip to 105 times lower than those of building materials applied ill the other compartments. The total damage to human health due to emissions occurring in the use phase of the Dutch reference dwelling has the same order of magnitude as the total damage to human health associated with the rest of the life cycle of the same dwelling. At a dwelling level, radon and gamma radiation are dominant in the human health damage score among the pollutants Studied. Conclusion. Health damages due to indoor exposure to contaminants emitted by building materials cannot be neglected for several materials when compared with damage scores associated with the rest of the life cycle of the same building materials. Indoor exposure to pollutants emitted by building materials should be included in the life cycle assessment of dwellings in order to make the assessment better reflect full impact of the life cycle.Background and Objectives. Values in the known weighting methods in Life Cycle Assessment are mostly founded by the societal systems of developed countries. What source of weights and which weighting methods are reliable for a big developing country like China? The purpose of this paper is to find a possible weighting method and available data that will work well for LCA practices conducted in China. Since government policies and decisions play a leading role in the process of environmental protection in developing countries, the weights derived from political statements may be a Consensus by representatives of the public. Methods. 'Distance-to-political target' principle is used ill this paper to derive weights of five problem-oriented impact categories. The critical policy targets are deduced from the environmental policies issued in the period of the Ninth Five-year (1996-2000) and the Tenth Five-year (2001-2005) Plan for the Development of National Economy and Society of China. Policy targets oil two five-year periods are presented and analyzed. Weights are determined by the quotient between the reference levels and target levels of a certain impact category. Results and Discussion. Since the Tenth Five-year Plan put forward the overall objective to reduce the level of regional pollution by 2005, the weights for All, EP and POCP for 2000-2005 are more than 1. By comparison between the Ninth Five-year and Tenth Five-year period, the results show that the weights obtained in this paper effectively represent Chinese political environmental priorities in different periods. For the weights derived from China's political targets for the overall period 1995-2005, the rank order of relative importance is ODP>AP>POCP>EP>GWP. They are recommended to the potential users for the broader disparity among the five categories. By comparison with the weights presented by the widespread EDIP method, the result shows that there's a big difference in the relative importance of ozone depletion and global warming. Conclusion. The w
eighting factors and rank order of impact categories determined in this Study represent the characteristics of the big developing Country. The derived weighting set can be helpful to LCA practices of products within the industrial systems of China.Goal, Scope and Background. Decision-makers demand information about the range of possible outcomes of their actions. Therefore, for developing Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as a decision-making tool, Life Cycle Inventory, (LCI) databases should provide uncertainty information. Approaches for incorporating uncertainty should be selected properly contingent upon the characteristics of the LCI database. For example, in industry-based LCI databases where large amounts of up-to-date process data are collected, statistical methods might be useful for quantifying the uncertainties. However, in practice, there is still a lack of knowledge as to what statistical methods are most effective for obtaining the required parameters. Another concern from the industry's perspective is the confidentiality of the process data. The aim of this paper is to propose a procedure for incorporating uncertainty information with statistical methods in industry-based LCI databases, which at the same time preserves the confidentiality of individual data. Methods. The proposed procedure for taking uncertainty in industry-based databases into account has two components: continuous probability distributions fitted to scattering unit process data, and rank order correlation coefficients between inventory flows. The type of probability distribution is selected using statistical methods such as goodness-of-fit statistics or experience based approaches. Parameters of probability distributions are estimated using maximum likelihood estimation. Rank order correlation coefficients are calculated for inventory items in order to preserve data interdependencies. Such probability distributions and rank order correlation coefficients may be used in Monte Carlo simulations in order to quantify Uncertainties in LCA results as probability distribution. Results and Discussion. A case Study is performed on the technology selection of polyethylene terephthalite (PET) chemical recycling systems. Three processes are evaluated based on CO, reduction compared to the conventional incineration technology. To illustrate the application of the proposed procedure, assumptions were made about the uncertainty of LCI flows. The application of the probability distributions and the rank order correlation coefficient is shown, and a sensitivity analysis is performed. A potential use of the results of the hypothetical case study is discussed. Conclusion and Outlook. The case study illustrates how the uncertainty information in LCI databases may be used in LCA. Since the actual scattering unit process data were not available for the case study, the uncertainty distribution of the LCA result is hypothetical. However, the merit of adopting the proposed procedure his been illustrated: more informed decision-making becomes possible, basing the decisions on the significance of the LCA results. With this illustration, the authors hope to encourage both database developers and data Suppliers to incorporate uncertainty information in LCT databases.Goal and Scope. Primary and secondary environmental impacts associated with bioremediation of diesel-contaminated sites were 
assessed using a retrospective life cycle assessment (LCA) as a function of the duration of treatment and the achievement of regulatory criteria. The case study consisted of the remediation of diesel-contaminated soil using biopiles of 8,000 m(3) of subsurface soil impacted with an average of 6,145 mg of diesel fuel/kg soil over a two-year period. Methods. Two scenarios were compared; the construction of a single-use treatment facility oil site or the use of a permanent treatment center that can accept 25,000 m(3) soil/year. Moreover, since bioremediation is never 100% efficient, different efficiency scenarios, including the transportation of partially treated soil to landfill were analyzed. The primary impact of residual soil contamination was determined by developing a specific characterization factor (ecotoxicity and human toxicity categories in the EDIP method) based on the toxic components of diesel. Secondary impacts were assessed with an LCA software. Results and Discussion. One major observation was the fact that the soil itself is responsible for an important fraction of the system's total impact, suggesting that it is beneficial to reach the highest level of remediation. The reutilizition of the treatment facility is also an important issue in the overall environmental performance of the system. In the case of a single-use treatment center, the analysis showed that site preparation and site closure were the major contributing stages to the overall impact, mainly due to the asphalt paving and landfilling processes. Results indicated that off-site transport and the biotreatment process did not contribute notably to the level of environmental impact. The use of a permanent treatment center is preferred since it allows a significant decrease of the secondary impact. However, when soil had to be transported for a distance greater than 200 km from the site, global impacts increased significantly. Conclusion. Results from this study allowed identifying several process optimizations in order to improve the environmental performance of the biopile technology including: the achievement of low level of residual contaminants, the minimization of asphalt or the use of a permanent treatment center. Recommendation and Outlook. LCA was found to be an efficient tool to manage contaminated soil in a sustainable way. However, because of the major contribution of residual soil contamination, additional spatial and temporal data should be collected and integrated in the substance characterization models.Goal, Scope, and Background. The main goal of the study is a comprehensive life cycle assessment of kerosene produced in a refinery located in Thessaloniki (Greece) and used in a commercial jet aircraft. Methods. The Eco-Indicator 95 weighting method is used for the purpose of this study. The Eco-Indicator is a method of aggregation (or, as described in ISO draft 14042, 'weighting through categories') that leads to a single score. In the Eco-indicator method, the weighing factor (We) applied to an environmental impact index (greenhouse effect, ozone depletion, etc.) stems from the 'main' damage caused by this environmental impact. Results and Discussion. The dominant source of greenhouse gas emissions is from kerosene combustion in aircraft turbines during air transportation, which contributes 99.5% of the total CO2 emissions. The extraction and refi
nery process Of Crude oil contribute by around 0.22% to the GWP. This is a logical outcome considering that these processes are very energy intensive. Transportation of crude oil and kerosene have little or no contribution to this impact category. The main source of CFC-II equivalent emissions is refining of crude oil. These emissions derive from emissions that result from electricity production that is used during the operation of the refinery. NOx, emissions contribute the most to the acidification followed by SO2 emissions. The main source is the use process in a commercial jet aircraft, which contributes approximately 96.04% to the total equivalent emissions. The refinery process of crude oil contributes by 2.11% mainly by producing SO2 emissions. This is due to the relative high content of sulphur in the input flows of these processes (crude oil) that results to the production of large amount of SO2. Transportation of crude oil by sea (0.76%) produces large amount of SO2 and NOx due to combustion of low quality liquid fuels (heavy fuel oil). High air emissions of NOx, during kerosene combustion result in the high contribution of this subsystem to the eutrophication effect. Also, water emissions with high nitrous content during the refining and extraction of crude oil process have a big impact to the water eutrophication impact category. Conclusion. The major environmental impact from the life cycle of kerosene is the acidification effect, followed by the greenhouse effect. The summer smog and eutrophication effect have Much less severe effect. The main contributor is the combustion of kerosene to a commercial jet aircraft. Excluding the use Phase, the refining process appears to be the most Polluting process during kerosene's life cycle. This is due to the fact that the refining process is a very complicated energy intensive process that produces large amounts and variety of pollutant substances. Extraction and transportation of crude oil and kerosene equally contribute to the environmental impacts of the kerosene cycle, but at much lower level than the refining process. Recommendation and Perspective. The study indicates a need for a more detailed analysis of the refining process which has a very high contribution to the total equivalent emissions of the acidification effect and to the total impact score of the system (excluding the combustion of kerosene). This is due to the relative high content of sulphur in the input flows of these processes (crude oil) that results to the production of large amount of SO2.Goal, Scope and Background. In a district heating network, hot water is transported from a central heat generation plant to buildings where the heat is utilised for space heating and domestic hot water generation. This paper presents a life cycle assessment of the construction of district heating pipe networks, based on a gate-to-gate life cycle inventory commissioned by the Swedish District Heating Association. In the literature, environmental studies oil district heating mainly consider emissions from heat generation; environmental impacts from construction of the distribution system are seldom discussed. The purpose of the study is to identify environmentally significant parts in the construction of district heat distribution networks and to provide information for a larger study including more parts of the life cycle of su
ch district heat distribution. No external review has been performed, but a reference group of district heating experts familiar with the practice was involved in the choice of systems to be studied as well as in reviewing parts of the study. Methods. The Study covers construction Of the Main Pipe system according to the guidelines from the Swedish District Heating Association. Construction of the pipe system was assumed to take place in Sweden by Swedish entrepreneurs during the time period 1999-2000. Transport of the district heating pipes from the factory to the excavation site is included in this Study, but not the production of the pipes. The functional unit used in the study is 100 metres of pipe system (flow and return pipe). The studied systems are: twin pipe of the dimension DN25 and single pipes of the dimensions DN25, DN100 and DN500. Two different surroundings were Studied: urban environment, characterised by the need to break open and to restore asphalt cover and to remove excavated material from the site, and green areas, Without my asphalt and where some of the excavated material might be left at the site and reused. Results and Discussion. A short description of the inventory, some inventory results and life cycle impact assessments are presented. Characterisations according to GWP, AP, POCP and resource depletion are given as well as two weightings: Eco-Indicator99 and Ecoscarcity. Emissions from production and use of the diesel needed for excavation of the pipe trench gives rise to a dominating part of the environmental impact. Recommendations and Perspective. To minimise the need for excavation is the most important feature in order to reduce the environmental impact from construction of the district heating pipe network. A twin pipe uses a narrower pipe trench than the equivalent two single pipes, and is an already available option. CO-utilising the trenches with cables for electricity, for instance, will not make the environmental impact from the trench any smaller, but will decrease the total need for excavation in society. It is important to make Sure that environmental improvements from changes ill the network construction phase are not off-set by other effects in the total life cycle of district heat distribution.Background, Aims, and Scope. As products are, directly and indirectly, main sources for ecological impact, the overall enhancement of products' ecological behaviour is an important contribution to the protection of the Earth's biosphere. This is especially important in a world where the major economical system is based on a constant rise in industrial production, consumption, and disposal of products. The true ecological performance of a product can only be determined by consideration of the impact arising from the entire lifecycle, and by including all known impacts into the assessments. The state of technology provides a standardized framework for such life cycle assessments (LCA) in the ISO 14040 series (see ISO 1997), and numerous databases and software tools are available to support the conduction of LCA. To integrate ecological indicators into decisions of everyday product development as natural as it is the case today with finite items, design, an costs, indicators based on a consideration of the product's entire life have to be generated with little effort and in short time. Methods. This article 
describes the fundamental principles of a technology designed to integrate lifecycle information into common 3-dimensional product models, like the ones used within modern Computer Aided Design (CAD) systems. Thereby, ecological assessments can be effectively undertaken during product development, where most of the environmental lock-in of a product is defined (see Lewis et al. 2001). Overall effects of alterations in materials or other product properties can be assessed instantly, supporting on the spot decisions to reach an improved product design. Results. Next to an information model that manages the product and process representation, the research on which this article is based also deals with the calculation of resulting indicators, database access to ecological indicators, a graphical user interface, and a synchronisation tool for the CAD system Pro/Engineer(1). The developed concepts have been implemented as a prototype software(2) and validated in different stages. Conclusions. The concepts described in this article are a foundation for tools that integrate ecological assessments into everyday product development, on the basis of 3-dimensional CAD systems. Reuse of existing CAD data, an improved understanding of the assessment structure by product developers, and an automated calculation of resulting indicators are approaches to largely enhance the efficiency of product-related ecological assessments.Within the framework of the Sustainable and Innovation Centre (STIC) an institutional capacity building process for Indonesian intermediary business organisations representing companies interested in 'sustainable trade' (integration of environmental and social dimensions), both as vendors - as far as the European market is concerned and buyers - as far as the Indonesian domestic market is concerned and reinforcement of their networking with the STIC-Europe hub. The programme includes, for business familiarisation and valorisation of market opportunities, one workshop in Ball and participation in champions and leaders networking initiatives facilitated by STIC for the agro-food, textile and electronic sectors as well as a website for creation of information links and exchange of matchmaking opportunities and exploration of opportunities to build a similar process for the ASEAN region.This paper presents a methodology and a software tool to establish an eco-design concept of a product and its life cycle by assigning appropriate life cycle options to the components of the product. The product life cycle planning (LCP) methodology provides the following systematic procedures. First, the medium- or long-term production and collection plan for the product family is clarified. Next, target values for the product and its life cycle are set in the process of determination of customer-oriented specification and eco-specification. Then, eco-solution ideas to realize reasonable resource circulation are generated by using various life cycle option analysis charts. Finally, an eco-design concept which involves eco-solution ideas is evaluated for decision-making at early stages of product development. A design support tool was made for efficiently planning product life cycles by using quality function deployment and life cycle assessment data. Based on case studies, it was verified that the proposed methodology and tool are useful for developing mu
lti-generational eco-products.The paper addresses the use of Life Cycle Assessment as a tool for analysing freight transport activity in product supply chains. Published works that have assessed freight transport energy use in supply chain operations are reviewed and their results summarized. A case study of the energy use in the supply chains for jeans sold in both the UK and France is presented. The results of this case study indicate that the location from which cotton is sourced can have a major impact on the total energy used in commercial transport in the jeans supply chain. However, overall, this has a limited impact on the total energy used in producing and supplying jeans. This is because the vast majority of total energy used in the supply chain is consumed during cotton cultivation, denim production and jeans manufacture. The work also demonstrates that the amount of energy used by consumers transporting jeans to their homes by car can be greater than the total commercial transport energy used in the supply chain (per kg of jeans transported).This study examines the potential change in primary emissions and energy use from replacing the current U.S. fleet of fossil-fuel on-road vehicles (FFOV) with hybrid electric fossil fuel vehicles or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (HFCV). Emissions and energy usage are analyzed for three different HFCV scenarios, with hydrogen produced from: (1) steam reforming of natural gas, (2) electrolysis powered by wind energy, and (3) coal gasification. With the U.S. EPA's National Emission Inventory as the baseline, other emission inventories are created using a life cycle assessment (LCA) of alternative fuel supply chains. For a range of reasonable HFCV efficiencies and methods of producing hydrogen, we find that the replacement of FFOV with HFCV significantly reduces emission associated with air pollution, compared even with a switch to hybrids. All HFCV scenarios decrease net air pollution emission, including nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, particulate matter, ammonia, and carbon monoxide. These reductions are achieved with hydrogen production from either a fossil fuel source such as natural gas or a renewable source such as wind. Furthermore, replacing FFOV with hybrids or HFCV with hydrogen derived from natural gas, wind or coal may reduce the global warming impact of greenhouse gases and particles (measured in carbon dioxide equivalent emission) by 6, 14, 23, and 1%, respectively. Finally, even if HFCV are fueled by a fossil fuel such as natural gas, if no carbon is sequestered during hydrogen production, and 1% of methane in the feedstock gas is leaked to the environment, natural gas HFCV still may achieve a significant reduction in greenhouse gas and air pollution emission over FFOV. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier B.V.Actions to moderate the major emission contributors of enteric fermentation, fertiliser and manure management on farms should not simply move the emissions elsewhere in the system, but actually reduce them. Life cycle assessment methodology was used to provide an objective framework for estimating emissions and to evaluate emission management scenarios with respect to kg CO2 eq emitted per unit of milk produced. An average dairy unit was defined and emissions were compartmentalised to calculate a total emission of 1.50 kgCO(2) eq kg(-1) (energy corrected milk) yr(-1) 
and 1.3 kgCO(2) eq kg(-1) yr(-1) with economic allocation between milk and meat. Of the total emissions, 49% was enteric fermentation, 21% fertiliser, 13% concentrate feed, 11% dung management and 5% electricity and diesel consumption. Scenario testing indicated that more efficient cows with extensive management could reduce emissions by 14-18%, elimination of non-milking animals could reduce emissions by 14-26% and a combination of both could reduce emissions by 28-33%. It was concluded that the evolution of the Irish dairy sector, driven by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), should result in reduced GHG emissions. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.One of the greatest problems associated with greenhouse horticulture is the amount of solid waste e. g. steel, plastics and non-yield biomass, that it produces. In this study, we used life cycle assessment (LCA) to evaluate the environmental burdens associated with crop processes and to investigate the relative importance of different waste management options applied in protected horticulture. Four waste management scenarios were analysed: (a) non-yield biomass was composted and other materials were disposed of in landfill; (b) all waste was disposed of in landfill; (c) all waste was incinerated; and (d) non-yield biomass was composted and other materials were incinerated. The study revealed that source segregation followed by the composting of biodegradable matter was the best way of managing waste to improve the impact assessment for most impact categories considered. Segregation of non-yield biomass and its composting reduced the environmental burden for most of the impact categories considered, reaching its maximum value in the category of climate change, which it was possible to reduce by between 40% and 70% depending, respectively, on the option considered; landfill or incineration.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is known to entail multiple objective decision-making in the analysis of tradeoffs between different environmental impacts. The work of Azapagic and Clift in the late 1990s illustrates the use of multiple objective linear programming (MOLP) in the context of LCA. However, it will be noted that their approach yields a range of Pareto optimal alternatives from which the decision-maker Must ultimately select the final solution. An alternative approach making use of Zimmermann's symmetric fuzzy linear programming method is proposed and illustrated with a simple case study. The procedure effectively yields a single, optimal compromise solution. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) aims to assess all environmental impacts "from cradle to grave". Nevertheless, existing methods for Life-Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) generally do not consider impacts from chemical exposure at the workplace. This is a severe drawback, because neglecting occupational health effects may result in product or process optimizations at the expense of workers' health. We adapt an existing LCIA method to consider occupational health effects from the use of perchloroethylene (PCE) and trichloroethylene (TCE) in dry cleaning and metal degreasing. The results show that, in applications such as metal degreasing and dry cleaning, long-term (steady-state) concentrations at the workplace are up to 6 orders of magnitude higher than ambient air levels. Legal threshold values may 
be exceeded, depending on machine technology, size, and surrounding working conditions. The impact from workplace exposure to the total human-toxicity potential of the complete life cycle of PCE and TCE (including use, production, and disposal) is accordingly high. We therefore conclude that occupational health effects need to be considered in LCA to prevent overlooking key environmental-health impacts in LCA.This paper gathers a number of significant results where nanotechnology was satisfactorily applied to improve packaged food quality and safety by increasing the barrier properties to oxygen of an ethylene-vinyl alcohol copolymer (EVOH) in dry and under humid conditions and of a poly(lactic acid) (PLA) biopolymer. The nanodispersion in the polymer matrix of modified monolayers of clays included in positive lists for food-contact applications is an adequate methodology to increase packaged food shelf-life. In spite of the fact that, in principle, there is no reason to believe that 'adequately' modified nanocomposites making use of substances in positive lists can impose any immediate risk threat for food-contact applications, further studies concerning potential migration issues and life-cycle analysis have to still emerge within the overall field of nanotechnology to corroborate the fact.A Life Cycle Assessment study was carried out for evaluating the potential of utilizing marine biomass for energy production. Macro-algae obtained from the Adriatic and Jonian seas have been selected and tested for our initial case. Different techniques (supercritical CO2, organic solvents, and pyrolysis) were utilized in this study for the extraction of biofuel. Supercritical CO2 appears to be the most effective. A computing software has been developed which allows to evaluate various options and can be used with either aquatic or terrestrial biomass. It has been used in our studies to make an energetic evaluation of selected marine macro-algae. The results of the energetic assessment are presented here. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.To achieve a sustainable power generation industry it is necessary to study the environmental impacts and economic costs of all aspects of a power generation plants' lifecycle - from mining to electricity distribution, and, ultimately, decommission (from cradle to grave). One key component in improving and maintaining quality of life for consumers is the application of the Green Productivity Index (GPI) in order to evaluate the related factors of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Life Cycle Costing (LCC). The goal of this research is to appraise the efficacy of decision-making tools in accurately assessing the potential results of 'green' improvements to coal-fired and natural gas-fired power plants in both ecological and economic terms. The recently developed Numerical Eco-load Total Standardization (LCA-NETS) evaluates environmental impacts by identifying and quantifying input energy and output waste released to the environment throughout the life cycle of a power plant. Environmental impacts caused by global and regional environmental issues are numerically calculated in the units of NETS. Environmental assessment tools such as LCA, LCC and GPI can be used to improve the 'environmental friendliness' of electricity generation by demonstrating the future sustainability of 'green' power generation plants and t
heir contribution to the quality of life of consumer.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) is environmental evaluation of products, materials, and processes over their life cycle. Truncation uncertainty and corresponding uncertainty are main problems occurred in process life cycle assessment (PLCA) modeling and economic input-output life cycle assessment (EIOLCA) modeling. Through combination of these two modelings in different life cycle stage and use of an uncertainty reduction strategy, a hybrid life cycle assessment modeling method was proposed in this study. Case studies were presented on gasoline powered motorbikes (M-bike) and electricity-powered electric bike (E-bike). Web-based software was developed to analyze process environmental impacts. Results show that the largest part of life cycle energy (LCE) is consumed at use stage. Less energy is consumed in life cycle of E-bike than that of M-bike. GWP (Global Warming Potential), CO (Carbon Monoxide), PM10 (particulate matter) emission of M-bike are higher than that of E-bike, especially at use stage, AP (acidification Potential) emission of E-bike is higher than that of M-bike. Comprehensively, E-bike is energy efficient and less emitting, and better choice for urban private transportation.The life cycle index of remanufactured engines was assessed by using the method of life cycle assessment (LCA). A remanufactured engine of a certain domestic brand was taken as researching object. Engine reproducing engineering was investigated from three aspects which were energy, material and environment. The application of LCA on remanufacturing engines was discussed in detail with a practical case. The results indicate that remanufacturing an engine can save 55 kg steels, 8.3 kg aluminum and 113 kW (.) h electric powers and reduce emissions of 565 kg CO2, 6.09 kg CO, 1.01 kg NOx, 3.985 kg SOx and 288.725 kg solid waste. The remanufacturing of engines possesses great economic value and practicability.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an environmental assessment method that has come into wide use. The LCA method has been used to assess the environmental impact of various products from domestic articles like plastic trays to large buildings. However, few LCA studies on domestic lumber have been conducted because of regional and other differences in forestry methods, distribution, etc. In this study, to obtain basic knowledge on the environmental impact of sugi lumber products, we investigated energy consumption, amount of waste, and volume of product in processes from felling to sawmilling. From the obtained data, emissions of environmental load substances were quantified and evaluated by LCA. The main results obtained are as follow: CO2, CO, NOx, and SO2 were emitted in large quantities from the sawmill subprocess. This is probably due to the large electricity consumption of sawmill equipment. The amount Of CO2 emissions depends on the yield of the sawmill and the distance from market of the sawn-till. Therefore, effective means to reduce the CO2 emissions were suggested as follow: the sawmill equipment can be rationalized to improve the yield in sawmill subprocess, and the sawmilling line can be made more highly effective; in addition, it is important to plan construction of sawmills so that the distance from the sawmill to the market will be shortest. Global warming and acidification comprise almost the e
ntire result of the impact assessment of both sawmills. The substances that contributed to global warming and acidification were CO2, NOx, SO2(,) and CH4 and each substance was emitted most in the sawmill subprocess. Overall, this study showed that the sawmill subprocess has the greatest role in the environmental load of lumber products.Sustainable industrial development which can minimize an ecological effect by the mankind exertion is recently interested due to an environmental contamination and a resource exhaustion problem. An eco-industrial park (EIP) is a community of manufacturing and service businesses seeking enhanced environmental and economic performance through collaboration in managing environmental and resource issues, including energy. water, and materials. EIP developments which improve a production plant within an eco-friendly greenfield and design a new industrial ecosystem are accomplished recently. which can efficiently re-use the waste and resources from each company within EIP. In this review, the outside and domestic case studies of El P and cornerstone technologies to develop the EIP. such as energy integration, waste reuse, mass flow analysis, water pinch, and life cycle assessment, are summarized.Environmental performance of different water recycling technologies is compared on the basis of the associated potential environmental impacts using the technique of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The LCA method is used here to support decision making in water recycling in terms of (1) comparison and selection of suitable technology and (2) identification of opportunities to enhance the environmental performance of the water recycling train. In addition to the conventional impact categories used in LCA, a new soil salinisation potential is included. The environmental impact contribution from the construction phase of each technology is estimated using the Missing Inventory Estimation Tool (MIET) approach which relies on the input-output analysis technique. LCA results are reported and discussed in detail in this paper and areas of potential improvement are identified including: (1) sludge quality and quantity, and (2) energy consumption. The suitability of using the LCA technique in the context of water recycling is discussed and the limitations of LCA for this particular purpose are outlined and further research needs identified.This paper describes a practical approach to site-dependent life-cycle analysis (SDLCA) that differentiates site-dependent environmental impacts from a system's processes by considering the geographical conditions of each process. This approach converts an environmental output into its impacts by using site-dependent characterization factors (SDCFs). This approach defines an area-the Spatial Area of iMpact Equivalency (SAME)-within the boundaries of the geographical system during site-dependent life-cycle inventory (SDLCI) analysis and calculates an environmental output from a process for the SAMEs. Each SAME represents a collection of geographical areas with internally homogeneous environmental impacts and can be mapped using a geographic information system. Preparing a SDLCI and SDCFs based on SAMEs facilitates the implementation of SDLCA by permitting the use of fewer regions during SDLCI. To demonstrate application of the SAME approach, an embodied impact intensity was formulated; it quantifie
s the impact directly and indirectly on the basis of the unit activity of a sector by means of input-output analysis with SDCFs. The validity of using SAMEs for SDLCA is demonstrated through two case studies: one studying suspended particulate matter, and one studying benzene. In both cases, the impact intensities are calculated using the SAME approach and the results are compared with those of site-generic LCI.This paper presents a life cycle analysis of several policies for improving housing affordability for first home owner-occupiers in Australia: the First Home Owner Grant, housing equity partnerships and deposit loans. The analysis is by simulation of a housing tenure choice model in which a representative adult household makes a lifetime plan concerning the timing of the first home purchase, and the amount of housing and non-housing consumption in each period. An insight from the life cycle framework is that policies to improve housing affordability can have a life cycle timing effect on housing demand and house prices.Goal, Scope and Background. Methodologies based on life cycle assessment have been developed to calculate the environmental impact of dwellings. Human health damage due to exposure to substances emitted to indoor air are not included in these methodologies. In order to compare this damage with human health damages associated with the rest of the life cycle of the dwelling, a methodology has been developed to calculate damages to human health caused by pollutants emitted from building materials. Methods. Fate, exposure and health effects are addressed in the calculation procedure. The methodology is suitable for organic substances, radon and elements emitting gamma radiation. The (Dutch reference) dwelling used in the calculation was divided in three compartments: crawl space, first floor and second floor. Fate factors have been calculated based on indoor and outdoor intake fractions, dose conversion factors or extrapolation from measurements. Effect factors have been calculated based on unit risk factors, (extrapolated) effect doses or linear relationship between dose and cancer cases. Damage factors are based on disability adjusted life years (DALYs). Results and Discussion. Characterisation factors have been calculated for 36 organic compounds, radon and gamma radiation emitted by building materials applied in a Dutch reference dwelling. For organic compounds and radon, the characterisation factors of emissions to the second floor are 10-20% higher than the characterisation factors of emissions to the first floor. For the first and second floor, the characterisation factors are dominated by damage to human health as a result of indoor exposure. The relative contribution of carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic effects to the characterisation factors is generally within one order of magnitude, and up to three orders of magnitude for formaldehyde. Conclusion. Health effects due to indoor exposure to pollutants emitted from building materials appear to be dominant in the characterisation factors over outdoor exposure to such pollutants. The health effects of emissions of organic compounds and gamma radiation in the crawl space are very small compared to the health effects of emissions into the other compartments. Using the characterisation factors calculated in this study, it is possible to calculate the human health dama
ge due to emissions of substances and radiation emitted to indoor air and compare this damage with damages to human health associated with the rest of the life cycle of the material. This is the subject of part 11 of this research.Goal and Scope. This study compared two different approaches to general inventory data in LCA, one involving the process-based ETH 96 database and the other an environmentally extended Input-Output table for the US, referring to MIET (Missing Inventory Estimation Tool) 2.0. The purpose of the present paper is to highlight and explain some of the differences between the two approaches, in order to give LCA practitioners a clearer idea of the advantages and limitations of using Input-Output analysis combined with process LCA. Methods. The comparison was made despite substantial differences between the two approaches, through a reduction and reclassification of the ETH process technology matrix to fit the Input-Output classification scheme and by concentrating on the structure of the processes rather than their absolute values. The structure is described in terms of the percentage of the CO, contribution to the total emission by all processes involved in the supply chain. An input and output structure comparison was carried out between ETH 96 and MIET 2.0, to extract information about their structures. Results and Discussion. The results of the study show that, despite their methodological differences, MIET 2.0 and ETH 96 show substantial similarities in their overall structures. There are also differences in the structure of the two databases, and most of them have occurred randomly, while, for certain particular sectors, the differences are rather persistent. Especially the contributions by capital goods are constantly lower in ETH 96 database and vice versa. The results imply possible systematic truncation in process LCA databases, especially for a few sectors such as capital goods. Recommendation and Perspective. Hybrid analysis can overcome the problem of incompleteness in process LCA, while avoiding such disadvantages of IOA as aggregation problem.Background. Toots and methods able to cope with uncertainties are essential for improving the credibility of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as a decision support tool. Previous approaches have focussed predominately upon data quality. Objective and Scope. An epistemological approach is presented conceptualising uncertainties in a comparative, prospective, attributional LCA. This is achieved by considering a set of cornerstone scenarios representing future developments of an entire Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) product system. We illustrate the method using a comparison of future transport systems. Method. Scenario modelling is organized by means of Formative Scenario Analysis (FSA), which provides a set of possible and consistent conerstone scenarios. Unit processes scenarios are generated for those unit processes of an LCI product system which are time dependent and of environmental importance. Unit process scenarios are combinations of levels of socio-economic and technological impact variables. Two core elements of FSA are applied in LCI scenario modelling. So-called impact matrix analysis is applied to determine the relationship between unit process specific socio-economic variables and technology variables. Consistency Analysis is employed to integrate various unit p
rocess scenarios into the overall cornerstone scenarios, based on pair-wise ratings of the consistency of the levels of socio-economic impact variables of all unit processes. Two software applications are employed which are available from the authors. Results and Discussion. The study reveals that each possible level or development of a technology variable is best conceived of as the impact of a specific socio-economic (sub-) scenario. This allows for linking possible future technology options within the socio-economic context of the future development of various background processes. In an illustrative case study, the climate change scores and nitrogen dioxide scores per seat kilometre for three technology options of regional rail transport are compared. Similar scores are calculated for a future bus alternative and an average Swiss car. The scenarios are deliberately chosen to maximise diversity. That is, they represent the entire range of future possible developments. Reference data and the unit process structure are taken from the Swiss LCA database 'ecoinvent 2000'. The results reveal that rail transport remains the best option for future regional transport in Switzerland. In all four assessed scenarios, two technology options of future rail transport perform considerably better than regional bus transport and car transport. Conclusions and Recommendations. The case study demonstrates the general feasibility of the developed approach for attributional prospective LCA. It allows for a focussed and in-depth analysis of the future development of each single unit process, while still accounting for the requirements of the final scenario integration. Due to its high transparency, the procedure supports the validation of LCI results. Furthermore, it is well-suited for incorporation into participatory methods so as to increase their credibility. Outlook and Future Work. Thus far, the proposed approach is only applied on a vehicle level not taking into account alterations in demand and use of different transport modes. Future projects will enhance the approach by tackling uncertainties in technology assessment of future transport systems. For instance, environmental interventions involving future maglev technology will be assessed so as to account for induced traffic generated by the introduction of a new transport system.Background, Aims and Scope. Huge amounts of sewage sludge, that need to be handled, are generated all around the world from wastewater treatment plants and its management in an economically and environmentally acceptable way has become a matter of increasing importance during the last few years. In this paper, we make use of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to compare biological and thermal processes, that is to say, anaerobic digestion versus pyrolysis and incineration. This paper will complete the analysis performed in a wastewater treatment plant, where sludge post-treatment was identified as one of the main contributors to the environmental impact on the global system. Methods. LCA is a tool for evaluating the environmental performance of goods as well as processes or services (collectively termed products). ISO 14040 defines LCA as a compilation and evaluation of the inputs, outputs and the potential environmental impacts of a system throughout its life cycle: from the production of raw materials to the disposal of the wast
e generated. In this study, data relating to the actual scenario from an existent wastewater treatment plant were considered. Both bibliographical and real data from existing facilities were used for the thermal processes proposed. The Centre of Environmental Science (CML) of Leiden University's methodology was chosen to quantify the potential environmental impacts associated with the different scenarios under study. The software SimaPro 5.1 was used and CML factors (updated in 2002) were chosen for characterisation and normalisation stages. Results and Discussion. In a previous study, sewage sludge was found to be a critical point in the environmental performance of a wastewater treatment plant, so different alternatives have been tackled here. Anaerobic digestion followed by land application of pasty sludge comprises both energy recovery and nutrient recovery. Other thermal processes, such as incineration or pyrolysis, allow energy recovery (both electrical and thermal) and, although nutrients are lost, new co-products are produced (tar and char at pyrolysis). Here, the most adverse case (that is to say, the total amount of heavy metals is supposed to be released from the sludge and reach the environment) was applied to consider the most negative impact due to sludge spreading in agricultural soils; so more research is required in order to establish the precise amount of heavy metals that is effectively uptaken by the plants and crops as well as the amount that is transferred to another phase as a leachate. Thermal processes are presented here as a good option to recover energy from the sludge; although the value of nutrients is lost. Tar and char, co-products from pyrolysis, are good examples that were evaluated here, recycling of bottom ashes from sludge incineration or manufacture of ceramic materials from sludge are other options to be studied in the near future. Conclusion. During the last few years, several opinions have been declared in favour of land application, incineration or pyrolysis, but many voices have also spoken out against each one. To obtain general conclusions for an overall comparison of different post-treatment of urban wastewater sludge is not easy as there are many contradictory aspects. The most effective utilisation of sewage sludge implies both energy and material reuse, but this is not always possible. Nevertheless, we think that land application of digested sludge is an acceptable option, probably not the best but at least a good one, for sludge treatment as long as efforts are focused on the minimisation of heavy metal content in the final cake.Intention, Goal and Background. In this paper some relevant results of a research work are presented, the main aim of which consists of performing the environmental assessment of different water production technologies in order to establish, in a global, rigorous and objective way, the less aggressive technology for the environment for supplying potable water to the end users. The scope of this paper is mostly oriented to the comparative Life Cycle Assessment of different water production technologies instead of presenting new advancements in the LCA methodology. Based on the results obtained in Part 1 (LCA of most widespread commercial clesalination technologies), the particular case of a big hydraulic project, which is the Ebro River Water Transfer (ERWT) consider
ed in the Spanish National Hydrologic Plan, versus the production by desalination of the same amount of water to be diverted, is compared in Part 2. The assessment technique is the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), which includes the entire life cycle of each technology, encompassing: extraction and processing raw materials, manufacturing, transportation and distribution, operation and final waste disposal. Methods and Main Features. The software SimaPro 5.0, developed by Dutch PR6 Consultants, has been used as the analysis tool, because it is a well known, internationally accepted and validated tool. Different evaluation methods have been applied in the LCA evaluation: CML 2 baseline 2000, Eco-Points 97 and Eco-Indicator 99. Data used in the inventory analysis of this Part 2 come from: a) desalination: data obtained for existing plants in operation; b) ERWT: Project approved in the Spanish National Hydrologic Plan and its Environmental Impact Evaluation and; c) data bases implemented in the SimaPro software - BUWAL 250, ETH-ESU 96, IDEMAT 2001. Different scenarios have been analyzed in both parts in order to estimate not only the potential of reduction of the provoked environmental loads with the present state of the art of technology, but also the most likely future trend of technological evolution. In Part 1, different energy production models and the integration of desalination with other productive processes are studied, while the effect of the most likely technological evolution in the mid-term, and the estimation of the environmental loads to the water transfer during drought periods are considered in Part 2. Results and Discussion. As proven in Part 1, RO is a less aggressive desalination technology for the environment. Its aggression is one order of magnitude lower than that of the thermal processes, MSF and MED. The main contribution to the global environmental impact of RO comes from the operation, while the other phases, construction and disposal, are almost negligible when compared to it. In thecase of the ERWT, the contribution of the operation phase is also the most important one, but the construction phase has an important contribution too. Its corresponding environmental load, with the present state of the art of technology, is slightly lower than that provoked by the RO desalination technology. However, the results obtained in the different scenarios analyzed show that the potential reduction of the environmental load in the case of the ERWT is significantly lower than that in the case of the RO. The effect of drought periods in the assessed environmental loads of the water transfer is not negligible, obtaining as a result an increasing environmental load per m(3) of diverted water. Conclusion. The environmental load associated with RO, with the present state of the art of technology, is slightly higher than that provoked by the ERWT. However, considering the actual trend of technological improvement of the RO and the present trend of energy production technology in the address of reducing the fossil fuels' contribution in the electricity production, the environmental load associated with RO in the short mid-term would be likely to be lower than that corresponding to the ERWT. Recommendations and Outlook. Although desalination technologies are energy intensive and provoke an important environmental load, as already explained in
 Part 1, they present a high potential of reducing it. In respect to ERWT, the results indicate, when the infrastructure of ERWT is completed (by 2010-2012), that the LCA of RO will be likely to be against the water transfer. With the present technological evolution of water production technologies and from the results obtained in this paper, it seems, from an environmental viewpoint, that big hydraulic projects should be considered the last option because they are rigid and long-term infrastructures (several decades and even centuries of operation) that provoke important environmental loads with only a small margin for reducing them.Background. The analysis of a wastewater treatment technology, under a expanded boundaries system which includes both the technology and the inputs required for its operation, quantifies the overall environmental impact that may result from the treatment of a wastewater stream. This is particularly useful for environmental policy makers being that a expanded boundaries system tends to provide a holistic view. The former view can be highly enriched with the use of process engineering tools, such as mathematical process modelling, process design, performance assessment and cost optimised models. Main Features. The traditional approach used to assess waste treatment technologies is contrasted with a life cycle analysis (LCA) approach. The optimal design of a granular activated carbon adsorption (GAC) process is used as a model system to demonstrate the advantages of LCA approaches over traditional approaches. Further sections of the paper describe a mathematical framework for the assessment of technologies, design considerations applied in the cost optimised carbon adsorption model, the use of LCA techniques to perform an inventory of all emissions associated to the process system and, some of its environmental impacts. Results. Economic and environmental considerations regarding the optimum process design are introduced as a basis for decision towards the selection and operating conditions of wastewater treatment technologies. Moreover, the use of LCA has revealed that the environmental burden associated with the wastewater treatment may produce a higher environmental impact than one that can be caused by untreated discharges. Conclusion. The paper highlights the string advantages that environmental policy makers may have by combining LCA and process engineering tools. Furthermore, this approach can be incorporated into other existing treatment processes or for process designers.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background. BASF has developed the eco-efficiency analysis tool to address not only strategic issues but also issues posed by the marketplace, politics and research. The goal was to develop a tool for supporting decision-making processes, which is useful for many of applications in the Chemical and other industries. A part of the eco-efficiency analysis involves the evaluation of the toxicity and the ecotoxicity potential. Objectives. Many life cycle analyses do not include an assessment of the toxicity potential nor the ecotoxicity potential. However, in order to arrive at a comprehensive assessment of products and processes, it is often the ecotoxicity potential, which constitutes an important factor with regard to the evaluation of sustainability. The cradle-to-grave approach is also important for this calcula
tion and will be done based on a database that will be discussed also in this paper. Methods. The method used for the determination of the ecotoxicity potential follows the basic rules of the European Union Risk Ranking System (EURAM). The other criteria of the ecological fingerprint are combined with the economical results in the eco-efficiency portfolio. Results and Discussion. The results of the studies are shown in a simple diagram, the eco-efficiency portfolio. Therefore ecological data are summarized in a special manner as described previously. It has been shown that the weighting factors, which are used in our method, have a negligible impact on the results. In most cases, the input data have the dominant impact on the results of the study. The ecotoxicity assessment will be a part of the ecological calculation. Because of the cradle-to-grave approach, substances of the whole life cycle can be identified that might have a toxic impact to the environment. The results can be used for optimization of the process. Conclusions. The new calculation model allows the assessment of eco-toxicological substances in an appropriate and easy way. In most of the cases the data from a European safety data sheet are sufficient for the calculation. The normalized data can be incorporated very easily in the ecological fingerprint and in the drawing of the eco-efficiency portfolio. Recommendations and Outlook. LCA in combination with the evaluation of the ecotoxicity potential will for reasons of optimizing for least impact become more important in certain cases. Especially in those systems where water emissions are likely, the use of the evaluation system in the eco-efficiency analysis is recommended. This new methodology allows the calculation of ecotoxicity potentials in a short time with a small set of input information. The analytical eco-efficiency tool helps in implementing more sustainable processes and products in the future.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) and life-cycle cost analysis (LCC) techniques are used to study a 25-year operational life cycle for plumbing fixtures and water-consuming appliances for four different multioccupant building scenarios: an apartment, a college dormitory, a motel, and an office building. Both analysis methodologies suggest that the specification of higher-efficiency fixtures and appliances is environmentally and economically justified for the scenarios considered. Additionally, both the LCA and LCC results suggest that natural gas should be used insted of electricity for water heating when both energy sources are practical options. The study found the dominant environmental impacts of domestic water consumption to be attributable to water intake, global warming potential, and fossil-fuel depletion. The dominant life-cycle cost component is for maintenance, repair, and replacement. The results of this study can be especially beneficial to long-term building owners, such as universities, because operational costs savings can be realized.The eco-efficiency analysis method developed and used by the Oko-Institut analyzes different alternatives that fulfill a defined consumer need, from an environmental as well as an economic perspective. Like life-cycle assessment (LCA), eco-efficiency analysis makes possible the setting of priorities in purchasing decisions or can be used to show optimization potentials in product d
evelopment processes. Eco-efficiency analysis builds upon two methods: LCA, according to ISO 14040 ff. (to assess the environmental aspects of products and processes), and life-cycle costing. Life-cycle costing results in a single figure-the total costs of ownership to one or several actors. The environmental impacts can be evaluated and aggregated as a single score or the impact category indicator results can be kept separate. In either case two single scores can be compared: the total environmental burden or the impact category indicator results, and the total costs of ownership of the alternatives under consideration. The results can then be plotted in two-dimensional graphs that show the effectiveness of certain measures in environmental and economic terms. The efficiency is expressed as a numerical ratio of environmental savings to difference in costs. Together with furnishing more detailed results and a discussion of additional benefits or potential barriers, eco-efficiency analysis broadens the basis for decision-making processes.The concept of eco-efficiency is commonly referred to as a business link to sustainable development. In this article, eco-efficiency is examined at a regional level as an approach to promoting the competitiveness of economic activities in the Finnish Kymenlaakso region and mitigating their harmful impacts on the environment. The aim is to develop appropriate indicators for monitoring changes in the eco-efficiency of the region. A starting point is to produce indicators for the environmental and economic dimensions of regional development and use them for measuring regional eco-efficiency. The environmental impact indicators are based on a life-cycle assessment method, producing different types of environmental impact indicators: pressure indicators (e.g., emissions of CO2), impact category indicators (e.g., CO2 equivalents in the case of climate change), and a total impact indicator (aggregating different impact category indicator results into a single value). Environmental impact indicators based on direct material input, total material input and total material requirement of the Kymenlaakso region are also assessed. The economic indicators used are the gross domestic product, the value added, and the output of the main economic sectors of Kymenlaakso. In the eco-efficiency assessment, the economic and environmental impact indicators are monitored in the same graph. In a few cases eco-efficiency ratios can also be calculated (the economic indicators are divided by the environmental indicators). Output (= value added + intermediate consumption) is used as an economic indicator related to the environmental impact indicators, which also cover the upstream processes of the region's activities. In the article, we also discuss the strengths and weaknesses of using the different environmental impact indicators.Eco-efficiency at the product level is defined as product value per unit of environmental impact. In this paper, we present a method for quantifying the eco-efficiency using quality function deployment (QFD) and life-cycle impact assessment (LCIA). These well-known tools are widely used in the manufacturing industry. QFD, which is one of the methods used in product development based on consumer preferences, is introduced to calculate the product value. An index of the product value is calculated as the wei
ghted average of improvement rates of quality characteristics. The importance of customer requirements, derived from the QFD matrix, is applied. Environmental impacts throughout a product life cycle are calculated based on an LCIA method widely used in Japan. By applying the LCIA method of endpoint type, the endpoint damage caused by various life-cycle inventories is calculated. Willingness to pay is applied to integrate it into a single index. Eco-design support tools, namely the life-cycle planning (LCP) tool and the life-cycle assessment (LCA) tool, have already been developed. Using these tools, data required for calculation of the eco-efficiency of products can be collected. The product value is calculated based on QFD data stored in the LCP tool and the environmental impact is calculated using the LCA tool. Case studies of eco-efficiency are adopted and the adequacy of this method is clarified. Several advantages of this method are characterized.The concept of eco-efficiency is increasingly being applied to judge the combined environmental and economic performance of product systems, processes, and/or companies. Eco-efficiency is often defined as the ratio of economic value added to environmental impact added. This definition is not appropriate for end-of-pipe treatment technologies because these technologies aim at improving the environmental performance of technical processes at the cost of financial expense. Therefore, an indicator for the assessment of end-of-pipe technologies has been proposed. This indicator, called environmental cost efficiency (ECE), is defined as the ratio of net environmental benefits to the difference in costs. ECE is applied to four end-of-pipe technologies for the treatment of municipal solid waste: sanitary landfill, mechanical-biological treatment, modern grate incineration, and a staged thermal process (pyrolysis and gasification). A life-cycle assessment was performed on these processes to quantify the net environmental benefit. Moreover, the approximate net costs (costs minus benefits) were quantified. The results show that, relative to grate incineration, sanitary landfills and mechanical-biological treatment are less costly but environmentally more harmful. We calculated the ECE for all combinations of technologies. The results indicate that the staged thermal process may be the most environmentally cost-efficient alternative to all other treatment technologies in the long run, followed by mechanical-biological treatment and grate incineration.The closing of material loops is a critical challenge in industrial ecology. It relies mainly on the utilization of recovered materials/parts/products in the original and principal production system while their original function is retained at the highest level possible. In this study, advanced loop-closing systems for the recycling of end-of-life vehicles and electric household appliances are first designed in "Hyogo Eco-town." Second, a methodology for evaluating the eco-efficiency of these systems is developed. Finally, the eco-efficiency of the designed advanced loop-closing strategies for the two products is evaluated, based on the results of materials flow analysis and life-cycle assessment. The results show that, compared with conventional recycling systems, when an industrial complex and an advanced loop-closing system for end-of-life vehicles are e
stablished, the total economic value increases by 114% and the eco-efficiency in terms of the amount of direct material input is improved by 57%. This system permits the utilization of the by-products, wastes, and recovered materials that originate from other industrial sectors as input to production activities. In the case of end-of-life electric household appliances, an advanced loop-closing strategy to lengthen the product life with parts reuse improves the eco-efficiency in terms of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 4% compared with the conventional replacement of the appliance with a new product along with the material recycling option.A simple method of representing the eco-efficiency (E/E) of a product system has been developed and applied to a pollution prevention program at a small to medium-sized enterprise (SME). Cost-side and environment-side indicators were derived using total cost accounting and life-cycle assessment, respectively The derived indicators were subsequently normalized to reference values representing the current cost and environmental situation. By combining these normalized indicators, the E/E of a product system can be expressed on a simple graph. The method was applied in a case study carried out at a South Korean SME producing components for electronic equipment such as mobile communication base stations. A silver-plating process was identified as one of the key processes driving a substantial fraction of the total cost and aggregate environmental impact of the product system. Focusing on the key issues identified, a series of alternative processes, including use of a product insulation cover, a sieve-type ancillary electrode, a balanced-uniform plating technique, stream segregation, and noncyanice electroplating, were proposed. The feasibility of these alternatives was validated against product specifications as well as the company's financial and spatial capacity The potential improvements accruing from these alternatives are presented as a simple graph that can be used by decision makers to readily identify trade-offs between economic and environmental issues.According to the life cycle assessment and the environmental design method of industry production, a quantitative assessment, model for the embodied environmental impact of concrete with or without fly ash was proposed. The environmental burden impact indicator (EBII), the resources depletion impact indicator (RDII), and the environmental impact comprehensive indicator (EICI) are defined. The specific-environmental impact values of different grade concretes with or without fly ash were presented. In the embodied process of concrete with, or without. fly ash, the key potential environmental impact categories are global warming and dust emission, aim] it is an effective way for reducing the embodied environmental impact of concrete to mix fly ash and lower grade cement. The method presented in this paper makes it possible to quantitatively assess the embodied environmental impact of concrete with or without fly ash. The results calculated in. this paper can be used to quantitatively assess the life cycle environmental impact of construction materials and buildings.Different types of assessment tools have been developed in Europe with the purpose of determining the environmental impact of various livestock production systems at farm level. The assessme
nt tools differ in terms of which environmental objectives are included and how indicators are constructed and interpreted. The paper compares typical tools for environmental assessment of livestock production systems, and recommends selected indicators suitable for benchmarking. The assessment tools used very different types of indicators ranging from descriptions of farm management and quantification of input to estimates of emissions of, e.g., nitrate and ammonia. The indicators should be useful in a benchmarking process where farmers may improve their practices through learning from farms with better agri-environmental performance. An example of this is given using data on P-surplus on pig farms. Some indicators used the area of the farm as the basis of the indicator-e.g. nitrogen surplus per hectare-while others were expressed per unit produced, e.g. emission of greenhouse gasses per kilogram milk. The paper demonstrates that a comparison of organic vs. conventional milk production and comparison of three pig production systems give different results, depending on the basis of the indicators (i.e. per hectare or per kilogram product). Indicators linked to environmental objectives with a local or regional geographical target should be area-based-while indicators with a global focus should be product-based. It is argued that the choice of indicators should be linked with the definition of the system boundaries, in the sense that area-based indicators should include emissions on the farm only, whereas product-based indicators should preferably include emissions from production of farm inputs, as well as the inputs on the actual farm. The paper ends with recommendations for choice of agri-environmental indicators taking into account the geographical scale, system boundary and method of interpretation. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Despite growing interest, rhetoric and research on ecological design in landscape architecture, practitioners in the US are not implementing as many ecological design strategies as might be expected. To better understand this phenomenon, the Green Building Practice Survey (GBPS) was carried out among landscape architects practicing varying degrees of ecological design to determine: (1) the frequency of use of common ecological design landscape strategies; (2) the obstacles and challenges that contribute to non-use; (3) significant characteristics of the firms; and (4) methods of project delivery. Phase I of the Green Building Practice Study, an online survey undertaken in association with the American Society of Landscape Architects, measured ecological design strategy use, identified unique characteristics of US ecological design practice in landscape architecture, and quantitatively revealed many challenges and constraints that practitioners face as they try to implement strategies. Phase 11 of the study, discussed in a separate publication, targeted a representative sample of 44 respondents with standard-questionnaire phone interviews to elucidate methods and techniques of ecological design practice. The study revealed high-frequency use of native plants, local materials, and site protection strategies; while use of green roofs, on-site wastewater treatment and material life-cycle analysis was quite low among the respondents. Commonly cited challenges were: issues of cost; lack of information, t
esting and data on performance of strategies; time available for research; and resistance by project stakeholders, other consultants and code officials. The results of this study highlight a strong need for research demonstrating the economic and performance advantages of ecological design; strengthened information dissemination forums for practitioners; and marketing and education efforts directed to all project stakeholders. This paper will present the survey results, relate them to similar studies in allied fields, discuss strategy use and challenges within the framework of Classical Diffusion Theory, and identify opportunities and forums where the challenges might be addressed. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This study uses life-cycle analysis to examine the net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the Canadian peat industry for the period 1990-2000. GHG exchange is estimated for land-use change, peat extraction and processing, transport to market, and the in situ decomposition of extracted peat. The estimates, based on an additive GHG accounting model, show that the peat extraction life cycle emitted 0.54 X 10(6) t of GHG in 1990, increasing to 0.89 X 10(6) t in 2000 (expressed as CO2 equivalents using a 100-y time horizon). Peat decomposition associated with end use was the largest source of GHGs, comprising 71% of total emissions during this 11-y period. Land use change resulted in a switch of the peatlands from a GHG sink to a source and contributed an additional 15%. Peat transportation was responsible for 10% of total GHG emissions, and extraction and processing contributed 4%. It would take approximately 2000 y to restore the carbon pool to its original size if peatland restoration is successful and the cutover peatland once again becomes a net carbon sink.The main research objective was establishing a simple but reliable methodology for the building design stage that would yield environmentally optimal buildings. A three-step methodology is proposed: (1) design variable grouping-four distinct groups were recognized according to their stage of major influence (production and construction, operational energy, maintenance to demolition, and an Integrated Group relevant to several life cycle stages), (2) generating the within group optimization methodology, and (3) integration. This paper presents the methodology developed for the grouping procedure, and its testing and application on a simple generic office module. Sensitivity analysis highlights the significance of electricity production fuel. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This study presents the results of a life cycle analysis (LCA) of greenhouse gas emissions from power generation systems in order to understand the characteristics of these systems from the perspective of global warming. Nine different types of power generation systems were examined: coal-fired, oil-fired, LNG-fired, LNG-combined cycle, nuclear, hydropower, geothermal, wind power and solar-photovoltaic (PV). Life cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emission per kW h of electricity generated was estimated for the systems using a combined method of process analysis and input-output analysis. First, average power generation systems reflecting the current status in Japan were examined as base cases. Second, the impacts of emerging and future nuclear, wind power and PV technologies were analyzed. Fin
ally, uncertainties associated with some assumptions were examined to help clarify interpretation of the results. (c) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.A life cycle assessment was performed to quantify the non-renewable (fossil) energy use and global warming potential (GWP) in electricity generation from a typical gas fired combined cycle power plant in Singapore. The cost of electricity generation was estimated using a life cycle cost analysis (LCCA) tool. The life cycle assessment (LCA) of a 367.5 MW gas fired combined cycle power plant operating in Singapore revealed that hidden processes consume about 8% additional energy in addition to the fuel embedded energy, and the hidden GWP is about 18%. The natural gas consumed during the operational phase accounted for 82% of the life cycle cost of electricity generation. An empirical relation between plant efficiency and life cycle energy use and GWP in addition to a scenario for electricity cost with varying gas prices and plant efficiency have been established. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Solar power generation and, in particular, space solar power generation seem to be one of the most promising electric power generation technologies for reducing emissions of global warming gases (denoted collectively as CO2 emissions below). Calculating the precise amount of net reduction in CO2 emissions of a solar power system over other alternative power systems requires careful life cycle considerations. For example, emissions from a space solar system must include the emissions from consuming rocket fuel during the launching the satellites, and the emissions from the energy consumed while producing the solar panels. In this paper, we calculate the CO2 emissions observed through the life cycle of a solar,power satellite (SPS). This life cycle consists of the production of rocket fuel and solar panels and the construction of a Rectenna (power receiving antenna), satellite, and all other equipment listed in the Department of Energy/NASA reference system. The calculation also includes indirect CO2 emissions that occur in various stages of production of these materials. Our baseline scenario shows that the life cycle CO2 emissions for an SPS system per unit of energy generated are almost the same as the emissions for nuclear power systems and are much less than the life cycle emissions for LNG-fired and coal-fired power generation systems. Furthermore, our SPS-Breeder scenario, in which SPSs supply electricity for producing further SPS systems, shows significantly lower CO2 emissions. As electrical power generation constitutes one fourth of Japan's total CO2 emissions, reducing emissions from electric power generation is one of the most important issues on Japan's policy agenda for dealing with global warming. Our findings suggest that the SPS is the most effective alternative power generation technology.This paper describes the life cycle assessment (LCA) for photovoltaic (PV) power plants in the new ecoinvent database. Twelve different, grid-connected photovoltaic systems were studied for the situation in Switzerland in the year 2000. They are manufactured as panels or laminates, from monocrystalline or polycrystalline silicon, installed on facades, slanted or flat roofs, and have 3 kW(P) capacity. The process data include quartz reduction, silicon purification, wafer, panel and laminate pro
duction, mounting structure, 30 years operation and dismantling. In contrast to existing LCA studies, country-specific electricity mixes have been considered in the life cycle inventory (LCI) in order to reflect the present market situation. The new approach for the allocation procedure in the inventory of silicon purification, as a critical issue of former studies, is discussed in detail. The LCI for photovoltaic electricity shows that each production stage is important for certain elementary flows. A life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) shows that there are important environmental impacts not directly related to the energy use (e.g., process emissions of NOx from wafer etching). The assumption for the used supply energy mixes is important for the overall LCIA results of different production stages. The presented life cycle inventories for photovoltaic power plants are representative for newly constructed plants and for the average photovoltaic mix in Switzerland in the year 2000. A scenario for a future technology (until 2010) helps to assess the relative influence of technology improvements for some processes. The very detailed ecoinvent database forms a good basis for similar studies in other European countries or for other types of solar cells. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.For the realization of a sustainable society, the number of environmentally friendly products introduced in the recent decades has increased in iron and steel products. Such products are compatible with environmental regulations, are preferable from the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) viewpoint and save energy when used in the final products because of their improved properties. Hydro-forming technology simplifies the production process, of automotive parts and reduces the parts' weight, contributing to an improvement in the fuel consumption rate of automobiles. In the steel-refining process, reduction of slag emission is a key issue and is accomplished by improvements in dephosporization efficiency and the recycling of the refining slag as in the multiple refining converter (MURC) process. Electromagnetic casting reduces the number of defects in hot coils produced from the slab cast by its application and has the possibility of eliminating the slab surface treatment, which saves energy. Control of nonmetallic inclusions and segregation are now utilized for the generation of steel properties more suitable for environmental concerns. Hydrogen gas generation by using coke oven gas and waste plastic recycling by using a coke oven also contribute toward creating a sustainable society.The main purpose of industrial ecology is to evaluate and minimize impacts from economic activities. Tourism, as an economic activity, results in a full range of environmental impacts and should be regarded as any other industry. Hence, the application of industrial ecology in tourism was investigated to enhance environmental management of catering. More specifically, boxed food in Taiwan was taken as a case study to demonstrate this new approach. The framework for studying boxed food was based on material flow analysis. Boxed food analysis can be divided into two parts: the meal box and the contents. Meal boxes were inventoried with a life cycle assessment (LCA). According to the findings of this study, environmental impacts from a PP meal box production were more expensive than o
thers, while those from a PS meal box production were the lowest. The life cycle inventory analysis of the contents will be investigated with a new approach system in the next phase of our work. This new approach is an integration of the LCA with the Hazard Analysis Control Point (HACCP) system. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In this study the use of 'cleaned' end of life (EOL) cathode ray tube (CRT) glass as a raw material in ceramic glazes is described. At present, the recycling and industrial utilization of CRT, a glass material from TV and computer sets, is a subject of intense research with particular regard to the so-called open-loop recycling, namely cycles different from that of the origin. However, the use of CRT glass as a secondary raw material is strictly related to the demand of high-quality raw material. The good preliminary results reached by introducing clean TV and PC monitor panel and cone glass into ceramic glaze formulations pushed research toward the setting-up of a base glaze that is exploitable for the production of pigmented, silk-screened and flame-hardened glazes (products used industrially for coating floor tiles). The aesthetic and chemical characterization of the tiles glazed by this product showed an extremely similar behaviour to originals that did not contain CRT glass. The good technical results achieved have been supported by the life cycle assessment analysis, which has demonstrated a reduction of the environmental impact of the CRT glass-containing ceramic glaze with respect to the standard one.Sustainable development relies on the eco-efficient use of all flows in society; more value created out of each resource unit. Supercritical water oxidation (SCWO) can be used for treatment of wet organic waste. The technology has been under development for over 20 years but has not yet been fully commercialized. SCWO allows for complete oxidation of all organics in sewage sludge and almost complete recovery of the inherent energy, essentially without harmful emissions. In this paper, a life-cycle assessment (LCA) of sewage sludge SCWO (Aqua-Critox) is presented and the results are compared with LCA results for other sludge handling options: agricultural use, co-incineration with municipal solid waste, incineration with subsequent phosphorus extraction (BioCon) and sludge fractionation with phosphorus recovery (Cambi-KREPRO). For SCWO, beneficial utilization of the heat of reaction is of crucial importance for the outcome. The electricity consumed by pumping and the nitrous oxide produced are other important parameters. The best sludge handling option from an environmental point of view depends on what aspect is considered more important in the impact assessment. Regarding global warming, the energy recovery methods perform better than agricultural use.The objectives of this study were to evaluate and compare the environmental load of two different concentrate feed supply systems to the Japanese domestic livestock industry using the Life-cycle Assessment (LCA) method. The current system was defined as that requiring 11.469 million tons of corn imported from the US by sea transport and supplied as concentrate feed to the Japanese domestic livestock industry The new system proposed by Kaku et al. in 2004 was defined as where 802,830 tons of US imported corn would not be planted in US and would be replac
ed by barley planted in 278 thousand ha of Japanese domestic land left fallow for the past year. In this case, 909,000 tons of domestic harvest barley would have been supplied as concentrate feed to the Japanese domestic livestock industry in 2000. The activities taken into account within the two system boundaries were three stages: concentrate feed production, feed transportation and gas emission from the soil by chemical fertilizer. Finished compost was regarded as organic fertilizer and was put instead of chemical fertilizers within the system boundary Adoption of this new concentrate feed supply system by the Japanese domestic livestock industry could reduce 78,462 tons CO2-equivalents of global warming potential, 347 tons SO2-equivalents of acidification potential, 54 tons PO4-equivalents of eutrophication potential and 0.842 million GJ as energy consumption below 2,000 levels. This LCA study comparing two Japanese domestic livestock concentrate feed supply systems showed that the stage of feed transport contributed most to global warming and the stage of emission from the soil contributed most to acidification and eutrophication. The Japanese domestic livestock industry could participate in emissions trading with CO2-equivalents reduced by shifting from some imported US corn as a concentrate feed to domestic barley planted in land left fallow. In that case the Japanese government could launch emissions trading in accordance with Kyoto Protocol in the future.This study compares life-cycle (cradle-to-gate) energy consumption and environmental impacts for producing ethanol via fermentation-based processes starting with two lignocellulosic feedstocks: virgin timber resources or recycled newsprint from an urban area. The life-cycle assessment in this study employed a novel combination of computer-aided tools. These tools include fermentation process simulation coupled with an impact assessment software tool for the manufacturing process life-cycle stage impacts. The process simulation file was provided by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and was modified slightly to accommodate these different feedstocks. For the premanufacturing process life-cycle stage impacts, such as the fuels and process chemicals used, transportation, and some preparatory steps (wood chipping, etc.), a life-cycle inventory database (the Boustead Model) coupled with an impact assessment software tool were used (the Environmental Fate and Risk Assessment Tool). The Newsprint process has a slightly lower overall composite environmental index (created from eight impact categories) compared to the Timber process. However, the Timber process consumes less electricity, produces fewer emissions in total, and has less of a human health impact. The amount of life-cycle fossil energy required to produce ethanol is 14% of the energy content of the product, making the overall efficiency 86%. Process improvement strategies were evaluated for both feedstock processes, including recycle of reactor vent air and heat integration. Heat integration has the greatest potential to reduce fossil-derived energy consumption, to an extent that fossil-derived energy over the life cycle is actually saved per unit of ethanol produced. These energy efficiency values are superior to those observed in conventional fossil-based transportation fuels.Based on the results of previous st
udies, the efficiency of a Brayton/Hirn combined cycle fuelled with a clean syngas produced by means of biomass gasification and equipped with CO2 removal by chemical absorption reached 33.94%, considering also the separate CO,) compression process. The specific CO2, emission of the power plant was 178 kg/MW h. In comparison with values previously found for an integrated coal gasification combined cycle (ICGCC) with upstream CO2 chemical absorption (38-39% efficiency, 130kg/MWh specific CO2 emissions), this configuration seems to be attractive because of the possibility of operating with a simplified scheme and because of the possibility of using biomass in a more efficient way with respect to conventional systems. In this paper, a life cycle assessment (LCA) was conducted with presenting the results on the basis of the Eco-Indicator 95 impact assessment methodology. Further, a comparison with the results previously obtained for the LCA of the ICGCC was performed in order to highlight the environmental impact of biomass production with fossil fuels utilisation. The LCA shows the important environmental advantages of biomass utilisation in terms of reduction of both greenhouse gas emissions and natural resource depletion, although an improved impact assessment methodology may better highlight the advantages due to the biomass utilisation. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The technical performance and energy requirements for production and transportation of a stand alone photovoltaic (PV)-battery system at different operating conditions are presented. Eight battery technologies are evaluated: lithium-ion (Li-ion), sodium-sulphur (NaS), nickel-cadmium (NiCd), nickel-metal hydride (NiMH), lead-acid (PbA), vanadium-redox (VRB), zinc-bromine (ZnBr) and polysulfide-bromide (PSB). In the reference case, the energy requirements for production and transport of PV-battery systems that use the different battery technologies differ by up to a factor of three. Production and transport of batteries contribute 24-70% to the energy requirements, and the PV array contributes 26-68%. The contribution from other system components is less than 10%. The contribution of transport to energy requirements is 1-9% for transportation by truck, but may be up to 73% for air transportation. The energy requirement for battery production and transport is dominant for systems based on NiCd, NiMH and PbA batteries. The energy requirements for these systems are, therefore, sensitive to changes in battery service life and gravimetric energy density. For systems with batteries with relatively low energy requirement for production and transportation (Li-ion, NaS, VRB, ZnBr, PSB), the battery charge-discharge efficiency has a larger impact. In Part 11, the data presented here are used to calculate energy payback times and overall battery efficiencies of the PV-battery systems. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Energy return factors and overall energy efficiencies are calculated for a stand-alone photovoltaic (PV)-battery system. Eight battery technologies are evaluated: lithium-ion (nickel), sodium-sulphur, nickel-cadmium, nickel-metal hydride, lead-acid, vanadium-redox, zinc-bromine and polysulphide-bromide. With a battery energy storage capacity three times higher than the daily energy output, the energy return factor for the PV-battery system ranges from 2
.2 to 10 in our reference case. For a PV-battery system with a service life of 30 yr, this corresponds to energy payback times between 2.5 and 13 yr. The energy payback time is 1.8-3.3 yr for the PV array and 0.72-10 yr for the battery, showing the energy related significance of batteries and the large variation between different technologies. In extreme cases, energy return factors below one occur, implying no net energy output. The overall battery efficiency, including not only direct energy losses during operation but also energy requirements for production and transport of the charger, the battery and the inverter, is 0.41-0.80. For some batteries, the overall battery efficiency is significantly lower than the direct efficiency of the charger, the battery and the inverter (0.50-0.85). The ranking order of batteries in terms of energy efficiency, the relative importance of different battery parameters and the optimal system design and operation (e.g. the use of air conditioning) are, in many cases, dependent on the characterisation of the energy background system and on which type of energy efficiency measure is used (energy return factor or overall battery efficiency). (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The production of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) is one of the fastest growing markets in the world. At the same time this also means that the amount of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) will continue to increase in the coming decades. As it is crucial to obtain more knowledge about the environmental consequences of the different WEEE treatment options, a study examining the two Swiss take-back and recycling systems of SWICO (for computers, consumer electronics and telecommunication equipment) and S.EN.S (household appliances) has been conducted. The two systems, which are based on an advanced recycling fee, are well established within Switzerland. With a combined approach of material flow analysis (MFA) and life cycle assessment (LCA), the environmental impacts of these two systems have been estimated, including all further treatment steps, which transform the fractions either into secondary materials or into waste for final disposal. As a baseline, we have used a scenario assuming that no WEEE is recycled and hence only primary production for the similar amount of raw materials. The impact assessment is based on characterization factors according to the Dutch CML methodology. The results show that throughout the complete recycling chain the sorting and dismantling activities of companies are of minor interest; instead the main impact occurs during the treatment applied further downstream to turn the waste into secondary raw materials. Within the two systems in Switzerland, the collection of WEEE seems much more relevant than the sorting and dismantling activities. When comparing the environmental impact of WEEE recycling with that derived from the baseline scenario (incineration of all WEEE and primary production of the raw materials), WEEE recycling proves to be clearly advantageous from an environmental perspective. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.A life cycle assessment was carried out based on a detailed life cycle inventory for a typical GSM 900 mobile phone network and related End of Life (EOL) treatment infrastructure. The environmental relevance of the three life cycle phases: prod
uction, use and EOL treatment was analysed using IMPACT2002+. The environmentally preferable EOL treatment alternative was identified on the basis of six previously developed EOL treatment scenarios. The results indicate that the environmental impacts attributable to the use phase dominate the environmental impacts incurred over the entire life cycle of the network. The impacts of the production phase are primarily attributable to the energy intensive manufacturing of printed wiring boards (PWB). The EOL phase dominates the impacts on ecosystem quality. In particular the longterm emissions of heavy metals have critical effects. Detailed analysis of the EOL phase shows that recycling of network materials in general leads to a two fold reduction of environmental impacts: in the EOL phase itself as well as by means of the avoided primary production of materials recovered in the EOL phase. An increase in the material quality of the secondary precious and rare materials leads to a significant reduction in the impacts on human health. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology is generally considered one of the best environmental management tools that can be used to compare alternative ecoperformances of recycling or disposal systems. It considers the environment as a whole, including indirect releases, energy and material consumption, emissions in the environment, and waste disposal and follows each activity from the extraction of raw materials to the return of wastes to the ground (cradle-to-grave approach). The study refers to the whole Italian system for recycling of household plastic packaging wastes. The aim was to quantify the overall environmental performances of mechanical recycling of plastic containers in Italy and to compare them with those of conventional options of landfilling or incineration and of a couple of innovative processes of feedstock recycling, low-temperature fluidized bed pyrolysis, and high-pressure hydrogenation. The results confirm that recycling scenarios are always preferable to those of nonrecycling. They also highlight the good environmental performance of new plastic waste management schemes that couple feedstock and mechanical recycling processes. (c) 2005 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Environ Prog.The 2002 World Summit for Sustainable Development in Johannesburg called for a comprehensive set of programs focusing on sustainable consumption and production. According to world leaders, these programs should rely on life cycle assessment (LCA) to promote sustainable patterns of production and consumption. Cleaner production is a well-established activity, and it uses LCA. UNEP, the European Union, and a number of national organizations have now begun to work on sustainable consumption. In developing sustainable consumption policies and activities, the use of LCA presents interesting opportunities that are not yet well-understood by policy makers. This paper reviews how life cycle approaches, primarily based on input-output analysis, have been used in the area of sustainable consumption: to inform policy making, select areas of action, identify which lifestyles are more sustainable, advise consumers, and evaluate the effectiveness of sustainable consumption measures. Information on consumption patterns usually comes from consumer expenditure surveys. Different st
udy designs and a better integration with consumer research can provide further interesting insights. Life-cycle approaches still need to be developed and tested. Current research is mostly descriptive; policy makers, however, require more strategic analysis addressing their decision options, including scenario analysis and backcasting.Chemical fate, effect, and damage should be accounted for in the analysis of human health impacts by toxic chemicals in life-cycle assessment (LCA). The goal of this article is to present a new method to derive human damage and effect factors of toxic pollutants, starting from a lognormal dose-response function. Human damage factors are expressed as disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). Human effect factors contain a disease-specific and a substance-specific component. The disease-specific component depends on the probability of disease occurrence and the distribution of sensitivities in the human population. The substance-specific component, equal to the inverse of the ED50, represents the toxic potency of a substance. The new method has been applied to calculate combined human damage and effect factors for 1,192 substances. The total range of 7 to 9 orders of magnitude between the substances is dominated by the range in toxic potencies. For the combined factors, the typical uncertainty, represented by the square root of the ratio of the 97.5th and 2.5th percentile, is a factor of 25 for carcinogenic effects and a factor of 125 for noncarcinogenic effects. The interspecies conversion factor, the (non) cancer effect conversion factor, and the average noncancer damage factor dominate the overall uncertainty.Goal, Scope and Background. Although LCA is traditionally a site-independent tool, there is currently a trend towards making LCA more site-dependent if not site-specific. For Europe, site-dependent impact factors have been calculated on a country basis for acidification, terrestrial eutrophication and toxicological impacts. It is, however, an open question whether this is the Optimum level for site-dependent factors. The aim of this paper is to develop site-dependent characterisation factors for different parts of Sweden for air emissions of NO., SO and particulates regarding ecosystem and human health impacts. Based on experiences from a case-study, the usability of the site-dependent factors for LCA are discussed, as well as the appropriate level of site-dependency for ecosystem and human health impacts. Methodology. The Ecosense model is used for calculating site-dependent factors for some atmospheric pollutants. Characterisation factors are calculated for four different places in Sweden with two different stack heights. Results and Conclusions. The characterisation factors for ecosystem impacts show fairly small differences between different parts of Sweden (within a factor of two). For health impacts, the differences between different parts of the country were larger and more significant (up to one order of magnitude). Also the difference between low and high stack heights may be relevant, especially in densely populated areas. These results suggest that for ecosystems, site-dependent characterisation factors for the considered atmospheric pollutants on a country level may be sufficient for most applications. However, for health impacts, site-dependent factors on a country level may be inappropriat
e. Beside LCA, the calculated factors and the methodology used should also be useful for other environmental system analysis tools, such as Strategic Environmental Assessment, Cost-Benefit Analysis and Environmental Management Systems.Background. The quantification of resource depletion in Life Cycle Assessment has been the topic of much debate; to date no definitive approach for quantifying effects in this impact category has been developed. In this paper we argue that the main reason for this extensive debate is because all methods for quantifying resource depletion impacts have focussed on resource extraction. Aim and Scope. To further the state of the debate we present a general framework for assessing the impacts of resource use across the entire suite of biotic and abiotic resources. The main aim of this framework is to define the necessary and sufficient set of information required to quantify the effects of resources use. Methodology. Our method is based on a generic concept of the quality state of resource inputs and outputs to and from a production system. Using this approach we show that it is not the extraction of materials which is of concern, but rather the dissipative use and disposal of materials. Using this as a point of departure we develop and define two key variables for use in the modelling of impacts of resource use, namely the ultimate quality limit, which is related to the functionality of the material, and backup technology. Existing methodologies for determining the effects of resource depletion are discussed in the context of this framework. Results. We demonstrate the ability of the general framework to describe impacts related to all resource categories: metallic and non-metallic minerals, energy minerals, water, soil, and biotic resources (wild or domesticated plants and animals). Recommendations focus on suggestions for a functionality measure for each of these categories; and how best the two modelling variables derived can be determined.Introduction. Statistical information for LCA is increasingly becoming available in databases. At the same time, processing of statistical information is increasingly becoming easier by software for LCA. A practical problem is that there is no unique unambiguous representation for statistical distributions. Representations. This paper discusses the most frequently encountered statistical distributions, their representation in mathematical statistics, EcoSpold and CMLCA, and the relationships between these representations. The distributions. Four statistical distributions are discussed: uniform, triangular, normal and lognormal. Software and examples. An easy to use software tool is available for supporting the conversion steps. Its use is illustrated with a simple example. Discussion. This paper shows which ambiguities exist for specifying statistical distributions, and which complications can arise when uncertainty information is transferred from a database to an LCA program. This calls for a more extensive standardization of the vocabulary and symbols to express such information. We invite suppliers of software and databases to provide their parameter representations in a clear and unambiguous way and hope that a future revision of the ISO/TS 14048 document will standardize representation and terminology for statistical information.Goal, Scope and Background. In the first
 part of this paper, we developed a methodology to incorporate exposure and risk concepts into life cycle impact assessment (LCIA). We argued that both risk assessment and LCIA are needed to consider the impacts of increasing insulation for single-family homes in the US from current practice to the levels recommended by the 2000 International Energy Conservation Codes. In this analysis, we apply our model to the insulation case study and evaluate the benefits and costs of increased insulation for new housing. Results and Discussion. The central estimate of impacts from the complete insulation manufacturing supply chain is approximately 20 premature deaths, 500 asthma attacks, and 8,000 restricted activity days nationwide for one year of increased fiberglass output. Of the health impacts associated with increased insulation manufacturing, 83% are attributable to the supply chain emissions from the mineral wool industry, which is mostly associated with the direct primary PM2.5 emissions from the industry (98%). Reduced energy consumption leads to 1.2 premature deaths, 30 asthma attacks, and 600 restricted activity days avoided per year, indicating a public health 'payback period' on the order of 14 years. About 90% of these benefits were associated with direct emissions from power plants and residential combustion sources. In total, the net present value of economic benefits over a 50-year period for a single-year cohort of new homes is $100 million with a 5% discount rate, with 40 fewer premature deaths in this period. Conclusion, Recommendation and Outlook. We have developed and applied a risk-based model to quantify the public health costs and benefits of increased insulation in new single-family homes in the US, demonstrating positive net economic and public health benefits within the lifetimes of the homes. More broadly, we demonstrated that it is feasible to incorporate exposure and risk concepts into I-O LCA, relying on regression-based intake fractions followed by more refined dispersion modeling. The refinement step is recommended especially if primary PM2.5 is an important source of exposure and if stack heights are relatively low. Where secondary PM2.5 is more important, use of regress ion-based intake fractions would be sufficient for a reasonable risk approximation. Uncertainties in our risk-based model should be carefully considered; nevertheless, our study can help decision-makers evaluate the costs and benefits of demand-side management policy options from a combined public health and life cycle perspective.Background, Aims and Scope. A strategy of local incineration with 17 small incinerators (Scenario L) is compared to a strategy of 3 centralized waste incinerators (Scenario Q for the region of Central Norway, in order to assess differences in environmental performance. Rough calculations of costs are also included. The functional unit is the treatment of municipal, commercial and special waste not recycled, plus the heating of a specific number of households, for the period of 2002 to 2020. Methods. Data on large and small scale incinerators were obtained from technology providers. LCA databases were used for transportation and heating, while cost estimates and Norwegian input-output tables were used for the construction of the facilities. The CML2 method was used to evaluate the impacts. Results and Discussion. Transport
ation is a major contributor to aquatic toxicity and acidification as well as CO2 emissions. Impacts from construction are considerable for photochemical oxidation, while incineration is important for terrestrial toxicity and CO2 emissions. Conclusion. Construction and operation of treatment facilities are, together with transportation, the main processes making a difference between the two strategies. Substantial gains will come from the reduction in transportation need when introducing a local incineration strategy. When considering a time span of two decades, the centralized scenario is about 2.5 to 5 times the impact potential of the local scenario for most impact categories, in terms of cumulative results. Cost estimates for the two solutions support these findings, as cumulated costs also favors a local solution. Recommendation and Outlook. Transportation is a major contributor to several impact categories, and especially the transportation of special waste should become more efficient in terms of transportation distances. Cost estimates support the environmental assessment, but a more comprehensive economic study of the system would be valuable.Background. This article describes two projects conducted recently by Sound Resource Management (SRMG) - one for the San Luis Obispo County Integrated Waste Management Authority (SLO IWMA) and the other for the Washington State Department of Ecology (WA Ecology). For both projects we used life cycle assessment (LCA) techniques to evaluate the environmental burdens associated with collection and management of municipal solid waste. Both projects compared environmental burdens from curbside collection for recycling, processing, and market shipment of recyclable materials picked up from households and/or businesses against environmental burdens from curbside collection and disposal of mixed solid waste. Methodology. The SLO IWMA project compared curbside recycling for households and businesses against curbside collection of mixed refuse for deposition in a landfill where landfill gas is collected and used for energy generation. The WA Ecology project compared residential curbside recycling in three regions of Washington State against the collection and deposition of those same materials in landfills where landfill gas is collected and flared. In the fourth Washington region (the urban east encompassing Spokane) the WA Ecology project compared curbside recycling against collection and deposition in a waste-to-energy (WTE) combustion facility used to generate electricity for sale on the regional energy grid. During the time period covered by the SLO study, households and businesses used either one or two containers, depending on the collection company, to separate and set out materials for recycling in San Luis Obispo County. During the time of the WA study households used either two or three containers for the residential curbside recycling programs surveyed for that study. Typically participants in collection programs requiring separation of materials into more than one container used one of the containers to separate at least glass bottles and jars from other recyclable materials. For the WA Ecology project SRMG used life cycle inventory (LCI) techniques to estimate atmospheric emissions of ten pollutants, waterborne emissions of seventeen pollutants, and emissions of industrial solid waste, a
s well as total energy consumption, associated with curbside recycling and disposal methods for managing municipal solid waste. Emissions estimates came from the Decision Support Tool (DST) developed for assessing the cost and environmental burdens of integrated solid waste management strategies by North Carolina State University (NCSU) in conjunction with Research Triangle Institute (RTI) and the US Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA)(1). RTI used the DST to estimate environmental emissions during the life cycle of products. RTI provided those estimates to SRMG for analysis in the WA Ecology project(2). For the SLO IWMA project SRMG also used LCI techniques and data from the Municipal Solid Waste Life-Cycle Database (Database), prepared by RTI with the support of US EPA during DST model development, to estimate environmental emissions from solid waste management practices(3). Once we developed the LCI data for each project, SRMG then prepared a life cycle environmental impacts assessment of the environmental burdens associated with these emissions using the Environmental Problems approach discussed in the methodology section of this article. Finally, for the WA study we also developed estimates of the economic costs of certain environmental impacts in order to assess whether recycling was cost effective from a societal point of view. Conclusions. Recycling of newspaper, cardboard, mixed paper, glass bottles and jars, aluminum cans, tin-plated steel cans, plastic bottles, and other conventionally recoverable materials found in household and business municipal solid wastes consumes less energy and imposes lower environmental burdens than disposal of solid waste materials via landfilling or incineration, even after accounting for energy that may be recovered from waste materials at either type disposal facility. This result holds for a variety of environmental impacts, including global warming, acidification, eutrophication, disability adjusted life year (DALY) losses from emission of criteria air pollutants, human toxicity and ecological toxicity. The basic reason for this conclusion is that energy conservation and pollution prevention engendered by using recycled rather than virgin materials as feedstocks for manufacturing new products tends to be an order of magnitude greater than the additional energy and environmental burdens imposed by curbside collection trucks, recycled material processing facilities, and transportation of processed recyclables to end-use markets. Furthermore, the energy grid offsets and associated reductions in environmental burdens yielded by generation of energy from landfill gas or from waste combustion are substantially smaller then the upstream energy and pollution offsets attained by manufacturing products with processed recyclables, even after accounting for energy usage and pollutant emissions during collection, processing and transportation to end-use markets for recycled materials. The analysis that leads to this conclusion included a direct comparison of the collection for recycling versus collection for disposal of the same quantity and composition of materials handled through existing curbside recycling programs in Washington State. This comparison provides a better approximation to marginal energy usage and environmental burdens of recycling versus disposal for recyclable materials in solid waste
 than does a comparison of the energy and environmental impacts of recycling versus management methods for handling typical mixed refuse, where that refuse includes organics and non-recyclables in addition to whatever recyclable materials may remain in the garbage. Finally, the analysis also suggests that, under reasonable assumptions regarding the economic cost of impacts from pollutant emissions, the societal benefits of recycling outweigh its costs.Intention, Goal and Background. In this paper, some relevant results of a research work are presented, the main aim of which consists of performing the environmental assessment of different water production technologies in order to establish, in a global, rigorous and objective way, the less aggressive technology for the environment of potable water supply to the end users. That is, the scope of this paper is mostly oriented to the comparative Life Cycle Assessment of different water production technologies instead of presenting new advancements in the LCA methodology. In Part 1, the environmental loads associated with the most widespread and important commercial desalination technologies all over the world - Reverse Osmosis (RO), Multi Effect Desalination (MED) and Multi Stage Flash (MSF) - are compared. The assessment technique is the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), which includes the entire life cycle of each technology, encompassing: extraction and processing raw materials, manufacturing, transportation and distribution, operation and final waste disposal. Methods and Main Features. The software SimaPro 5.0, developed by Dutch PRe Consultants, has been used as the analysis tool, because it is a well known, internationally accepted and validated tool. Different evaluation methods have been applied in the LCA evaluation: CML 2 baseline 2000, Eco-Points 97 and Eco-Indicator 99. Data used in the inventory analysis of this Part 1 come from: a) existing plants in operation; b) data bases implemented in the SimaPro 5.0 software -BUWAL 250, ETH-ESU 96, IDEMAT 2001. Different scenarios have been analyzed in both parts in order to estimate, not only the potential of reduction of the provoked environmental loads with the present state of the art of technology, but also the most likely future trend of technological evolution. In Part 1, different energy production models and the integration of desalination with other productive processes are studied, while the effect of the most likely technological evolution in the midterm, and the estimation of the environmental loads to the water transfer during drought periods are considered in Part 2. Results and Discussion. The main contribution to the global environmental impact of desalination technologies comes from the operation, while the other phases, construction and disposal, are almost negligible when compared to it. Energy is very important in desalination, for this reason the environmental loads change a lot depending on the technology used for providing the energy used in the desalination process. Among the different analyzed technologies, RO is the least aggressive desalination technology (one order of magnitude lower than the thermal processes, MSF and MED) for the environment. When integrating thermal desalination with other productive processes taking advantage of the residual heat, the environmental loads of thermal desalination technologies is hig
hly reduced, obtaining similar loads to that of RO. The environmental loads of desalination technologies are significantly reduced when an energy model based on renewable energies is used. Taking into account the technological evolution, which is experiencing the RO, a reduction of its environmental load by about 40% is to be expected in the mid-term. Conclusion. The main conclusion of Part 1 is that, with the present state of the art of the technology, RO is clearly the desalination technology with a reduced environmental load (one order of magnitude lower than the thermal processes, MSF and MED). In the case of thermal desalination technologies, their environmental load can be highly reduced (about 1,000 times less) when integrated with other industrial processes. In the case of RO, the scores and the airborne emissions obtained from an electricity production model based on renewable energies are about 65-70 times lower than those obtained when the electricity production model is mainly based on fossil fuels. Recommendations and Outlook. Although desalination technologies are energy intensive and provoke an important environmental load, they present a high potential in being reduced since: a) in the mid-term, it is to be expected that the different technologies could improve their efficiency significantly, b) the environmental loads would be highly reduced if the energy production models were not mainly based on fossil fuels and c) the energy consumption, particularly in the case of thermal desalination, can be drastically reduced when integrating desalination with other productive processes. The results presented in this paper indicate that a very interesting and promising field of research is available in order to reduce the environmental load of these vigorous and increasing desalination technologies.Goal and Scope. This study estimates the life cycle inventory (LCI) of the electricity system in the United States, including the 10 NERC (North American Electric Reliability Council) regions, Alaska, Hawaii, off-grid non-utility plants and the US average figures. The greenhouse gas emissions associated with the United States electricity system are also estimated. Methods. The fuel mix of the electricity system based on year 2000 data is used. The environmental burdens associated with raw material extraction, petroleum oil production and transportation for petroleum oil and natural gas to power plants are adopted from the DEAM (TM) LCA database. Coal transportation from a mining site to a power plant is specified with the data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA), which includes the mode of transportation as well as the distance traveled. The gate-to-gate environmental burdens associated with generating electricity from a fossil-fired power plant are obtained from the DEAM (TM) LCA database and the eGRID model developed by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. For nuclear power plants and hydroelectric power plants, the data from the DEAM (TM) LCA database are used. Results and Discussion. Selected environmental profiles of the US electricity system are presented in the paper version, while the on-line version presents the whole LCI data. The overall US electricity system in the year 2000 released about 2,654 Tg CO2 eq. of greenhouse gas emissions based on 100-year global warming potentials with 193 g CO2 eq. MJe
(-1) as an weighted average emission rate per one MJ electricity generated. Most greenhouse gases are released during combusting fossil fuels, accounting for 78-95% of the total. The greenhouse gas emissions released from coal-fired power plants account for 81% of the total greenhouse gas emissions associated with electricity generation, and natural gas-fired power plants contribute about 16% of the total. The most significant regions for the total greenhouse gas emissions are the SERC (Southeastern Electric Reliability Council) and ECAR (East Central Area Reliability Coordination Agreement) regions, which account for 22% and 21% of the total, respectively. A sensitivity analysis on the generation and consumption based calculations indicates that the environmental profiles of electricity based on consumption are more uncertain than those based on generation unless exchange data from the same year are available because the exchange rates (region to region import and export of electricity) vary significantly from year to year. Conclusions and Outlook. Those who are interested in the LCI data of the US electricity system can refer to the on-line version. When the inventory data presented in the on-tine version are used in a life cycle assessment study, the distribution and transmission losses should be taken into account, which is about 9.5% of the net generation [1]. The comprehensive technical information presented in this study can be used in estimating the environmental burdens when new information on the regional fuel mix or the upstream processes is available. The exchange rates presented in this study also offer useful information in consequential LCI studies.Printer and letter quality paper represents a high-value component of the waste from commercial premises. Around large cities, exemplified by London, the paper flows are sufficiently large to sustain a dedicated logistics network and plant to recover and recycle graphics-quality paper. Analysis of the fibre flows around the supply system for paper recovery and recycling shows that, given the present low proportion of recycled fibre graphics paper used in the UK, other sources of fibre are not needed to maintain the supply and quality of the recycled material. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of the recycling system shows that its environmental performance is dominated by energy use and greenhouse-warming emissions. Although the detailed results depend on how waste fibre and biomass are otherwise used, this emerges as a case in which recycling really does give environmental benefits. LCA also enables possible changes in the system for recovering and reprocessing paper to be examined, leading to new concepts for more sustainable local management of resource flows.Recycling of waste materials has been analysed from a life cycle perspective in a number of studies over the past 10-15 years. Publications comparing the global warming impact and total energy use of recycling versus incineration and landfilling were reviewed in order to find out to what extent they agree or contradict each other, and whether there are generally applicable conclusions to be drawn when certain key factors are considered. Four key factors with a significant influence on the ranking between recycling, incineration, and landfilling were identified. Producing materials from recycled resources is often, but not alway
s, less energy intensive and causes less global warming impact than from virgin resources. For non-renewable materials the savings are of such a magnitude, that apparently the only really crucial factor is what material is replaced. For paper products, however, the savings of recycling are much smaller. The ranking between recycling and incineration of paper is sensitive to for instance paper quality, energy source avoided by incineration, and energy source at the mill. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.v. All rights reserved.Food production chains can be organised in a variety of ways. Conventional 'industrial' agricultural practices are based on advanced breeding techniques and major inputs of chemical fertilisers, and pesticides. Food produced in this way is transport-intensive, requires high-energy processing, relies on modem retailing systems and demands high-tech kitchens. Many argue that the industrialised systems should be dismantled and replaced with alternative methods of agriculture, food processing and distribution that emphasise social and environmental sustainability. This paper looks at the environmental and social sustainability of different strategies for food systems by analysing the whole chain of production, processing, distribution and consumption activities of the production of frozen peas, a vegetable that is 'symbolic' of modem food systems and the UK diet. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.To study future, sustainable production systems, a stepwise method was used to create three future scenarios for pig production based on different sustainability goals. The first scenario focused on animal welfare and the natural behavior of the animals. The second targeted low impacts on the environment and the efficient use of natural resources. The third scenario aimed at product quality and safety. Each scenario fulfilled different aspects of sustainability, but there were goal conflicts because no scenario fulfilled all sustainability goals. The scenarios were then parameterized. The environmental impact was calculated using the life-cycle assessment (LCA) methodology, and the economic cost was calculated from the same data set. The cost per kilo of pork was highest for the animal welfare scenario and similar for the other two scenarios. The environmental scenario had the lowest environmental impact, and the product-quality scenario the highest. The results are discussed based on different future priorities.Two scenarios for future pig meat production were constructed. The first was a "business as usual" scenario, where the pig feed was based on domestic grain and imported soy-meal, and no efforts were made to reduce pesticide use. The second scenario had a strong environmental focus, and both peas and rapeseed were grown at pig-farm level to produce grain and protein feed. Preventive measures, such as a more diverse crop rotation and mechanical weed control, were combined to reduce pesticide use. The two scenarios were environmentally assessed by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and a pesticide risk indicator model (PRI-Farm). The results showed environmentally sound possibilities to reduce pesticide dependency and risks by using altered plant protection strategies in pig-feed production. Organizing on-farm feed production so that protein feed crops are integrated with grain crops contributes to a more diverse crop rotation.Today th
ere is a strong trend in Sweden for industrially processed meals to replace homemade meals. In the public debate this is often claimed to increase the environmental impact from foods. In the study presented in this article, we used life-cycle assessment to quantify the environmental impact of three meals: homemade, semiprepared, and ready-to-eat. The differences in environmental impact between the meals were small; the ready-to-eat meal used the most energy, whereas the homemade meal had higher emissions causing eutrophication and global warming. The dominating contributor to the environmental impact was agriculture, accounting for 30% of the impact related to energy and 95% of that related to eutrophication. Industry, packaging, and consumer home transport and food preparation also contributed significantly. Important factors were raw material use, energy efficiency in industry and households, packaging, and residue treatment. To decrease the overall environmental impact of food consumption, improvements in agriculture are very important, together with raw-material use within industry and households.Since solar energy systems feed on a 'clean' energy source, they do not produce polluting emissions during their operation. However, they carry the environmental weight of other phases in their life cycle. In order to analyze the energy and environmental profile of these systems, it is necessary to expand the system boundaries, taking into account also the 'hidden impacts' related to production, transportation and system disposal at the end of its technical life. Here, the life cycle assessment methodology is applied to derive a complete and extended energy and environmental profile of photovoltaic systems. As reference case, a conventional multi-crystalline building integrated system is selected, retrofitted on a tilted roof, located in Rome (Italy) and connected to the national electricity grid. Then improved configurations of the reference system are assessed, focusing on building integration issues and the operational phase (considering an experimental hybrid photovoltaic system with heat recovery). Environmental 'pay back times' of the assessed systems are then calculated for CO2 equivalent emissions and embodied energy. All the analyzed configurations are characterized by environmental pay back times one order of magnitude lower than their expected life time (3-4 years vs. 15-30 years). Thanks to a wider exploitation of photovoltaic potential during its 'zero emission operation', these results are further lowered by photovoltaic hybrid systems (environmental pay back times, depending on heat recovery configuration, go down to 40-50% of the values calculated for the reference case). (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Windows are important in the workplace for both environmental and psychological reasons. Good glazing design can reduce energy outputs by lowering the requirements for heating or cooling; frame design can utilise more sustainable materials and those with lower embodied energy, such as timber and aluminium-clad timber. Windows are also important for the provision of daylight and a view, both of which have known psychological benefits, although glare and passive solar gain can be problematic. Three studies were undertaken to look at sustainability and comfort issues for a number of different types of multi-glazed windo
ws. Focus groups and interviews with professionals were used to examine issues of sustainability and productivity. Four case study buildings were surveyed to examine the level of energy use for different glazing specifications. A post-occupancy survey was then used to examine the level of comfort in these buildings. Results showed that architects consider comfort and productivity in their designs, but consider sustainability less often. Surveys of energy usage showed that building design can influence the efficiency of multi-glazed windows; this result was mirrored in the post-occupancy survey where design factors influenced occupant comfort. The research concludes that comfort and productivity in the workplace is related more to design factors than to sustainability factors. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This study explores the boundaries of electric industry fuel switching in response to US carbon constraints. A ternary model quantifies how supply side compliance alternatives would change under increasingly stringent climate policies and continued growth in electricity use. Under the White House Climate Change Initiative, greenhouse gas emissions may increase and little or no change in fuel-mix is necessary. As expected, the more significant carbon reductions proposed under the Kyoto Protocol (1990-7 % levels) and Climate Stewardship Act (CSA) (1990 levels) require an increase of some combination of renewable, nuclear, or natural gas generated electricity. The current trend of natural gas power plant construction warrants the investigation of this technology as a sustainable carbon-mitigating measure. A detailed life-cycle assessment shows that significant greenhouse gas emissions occur upstream of the natural gas power plant, primarily during fuel-cycle operations. Accounting for the entire life-cycle increases the base emission rate for combined-cycle natural gas power by 22 %. Two carbon-mitigating strategies are tested using life-cycle emission rates developed for US electricity generation. Relying solely on new natural gas plants for CSA compliance would require a 600 % increase in natural gas generated electricity and almost complete displacement of coal from the fuel mix. In contrast, a 240 % increase in nuclear or renewable resources meets the same target with minimal coal displacement. This study further demonstrates how neglecting life-cycle emissions, in particular those occurring upstream of the natural gas power plant, may cause erroneous assessment of supply side compliance alternatives. (c) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A new multisubstance potentially affected fraction (msPAF)-based method for calculating ecotoxicological effect factors for life-cycle assessment is introduced and compared to two other available methods of calculation. The new method is based on marginal increase of the msPAF of species. The method follows concentration-additive rules for pollutants with the same toxic mode of action (TMoA) and response-additive calculation rules for pollutants with independent action, and it combines a TMoA-specific factor, which is calculated differently in different methods, and a substance-specific factor, which is common to all methods. For 261 substances in 22 toxic modes of action, ecotoxicological effect factors for freshwater ecosystems have been calculated by different methods. Method-relat
ed differences appear to be rather small. Intersubstance differences in effect factors stem from differences in substance-specific toxic potencies, which span eight orders of magnitude, rather than from differences in TMoA-specific factors, which span only three orders of magnitude. Based on these insights, the choice of a calculation method seems to be a matter of personal (scientific) preference. The new hybrid msPAF method was greatly sensitive to data that usually are not known with sufficient certainty. Its use is recommended, entirely for reasons of scientific consistency, under strict conditions. When such conditions are not met or if necessary parameter values are unavailable, use of a fixed value for the TMoA-specific component is recommended.Bagasse, the waste from sugar processing, is one of the biomass residues used as fuel. It can thus be a useful renewable resource for energy which also promises to avoid the environmental emissions of power generation from fossil fuels. Nevertheless, it should be confirmed that power production from bagasse is friendlyfor the environment. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a very useful tool for such an evaluation. In this study, the LCA methodology is used for the environmental assessment of energy production from bagasse at Ratchasima Sugar Mill, Thailand. The sugar mill processes 30,000 tons of sugarcane per day. The power plant, attached to the sugar mill, is of cogeneration type. The energy and water balance show that 272 tons of bagasse can produce 342 tons ofsteam at 420 C used in the sugar process and about 25.5 MWh of electricity. Since the carbon in bagasse is part of the global carbon cycle, the CO2 emission from the combustion of bagasse does not contribute to global warming. Therefore, the study focuses on the acidifying gases, NOx and SOx which are also of concern in fossil-based power generation. A low amount of nitrogen (1.82%) and sulphur (< 1%) in bagasse and low combustion temperatures contribute to low NOx and SO2 formation. Consequently, bagasse can be an environmentally-friendly raw material for power generation and has high potential as an alternate, renewable source of energy.One of the main goals in decision-making for sustainable development is to identify and choose the most sustainable option among different alternatives. This process usually involves a large number of stakeholders with multiple, often conflicting objectives. Facilitating and resolving such difficult decision situations can be complex, so that a more formal and systematic approach to decision-making may be necessary. This paper proposes an integrated multiple criteria decision-support framework specifically developed to provide a systematic, step-by-step guidance to decision-makers. The framework, which is suitable for both corporate and public policy-making in the context of sustainable development, comprises three steps: problem structuring, problem analysis and problem resolution. This paper concentrates on problem analysis and resolution, where decision-makers articulate their preferences for different decision criteria. A suitable Multiple Criteria Decision Analysis (MCDA) technique, such as multi-objective optimisation, goal programming, value-based and outranking approaches, is then used to model the preferences. These techniques are discussed here in some detail, to provide guidance oil the ch
oice of the most appropriate MCDA method. Based on the Outcome of preference modelling, which estimates the overall 'value' of each alternative being considered, decision-makers can then choose the 'best' or most sustainable option. Such an integrated decision-support framework is useful for providing structure to the debate, ensuring dialogue among decision-makers and showing trade-offs between conflicting objectives. In this way, it may be possible to create shared understanding about the issues, generate a sense of common purpose and, often, resolve 'difficult' decision problems.Strategies and achievements in the Asian steel industry in constructing an industrial ecological chain are reviewed, largely for the cases of Japan, Korea and China. Emphasis is placed on the development of a resource recycling system for the minimisation of various wastes and emissions of greenhouse gases, toxic gases and polluting particulates. The minimisation strategy includes: &BULL; rationalisation of ironmaking and steelmaking processes implementation of available relevant measures/technologies &BULL; life cycle assessment in designing steel from semis to assembled products &BULL; reduction, reuse and recycling of materials and energies &BULL; utilisation of competent core technologies to process domestic and industrial wastes. In view of the global nature of the above waste and emission issues, interindustrial linkage and international cooperation across the borders among Asian countries have become more important. Interindustrial linkage definitely serves to cut back wastes and emissions. Examples of such linkage and factors influencing the sustainability of the linkage are described, with expectation of further development of the linkage. The importance of international cooperation cannot be overstressed under the circumstances where steel production in 2004 exceeded 260 Mt in China and 1 Gt worldwide and is still increasing. Practical measures are discussed to enhance the linkage and cooperation for effectively promoting reduction, reuse and recycling, including implications for the nonferrous industry.This papers attempts to bridge business ethics to corporate social responsibility including the social and environmental dimensions. The objective of the paper is to suggest an improvement of the most commonly used corporate environmental management tool, the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The method includes two stages. First, more phases are added to the life-cycle of a product. Second, social criteria that measure the social performance of a product are introduced. An application of this "extended" LCA tool is given.Environmental policy is oriented toward integrated pollution prevention, taking into consideration all environmental media (air, water, land) and energy consumption. Therefore, methods for assessing environmentally relevant installations are needed which take economic, technical, and especially ecological criteria into account simultaneously. Mass and energy flow models are used for the representation of production processes and form the basis for the inventory phase in life-cycle assessment (LCA). For the interpretation of LCA results and the weighting of the aggregated impact assessment indicators, approaches of multicriterion analysis (MCA) have been proposed. These can analyze ecological aspects as well as economic and technical criter
ia. Recent developments in LCA focus on decision support for policy makers or decision boards. Appropriate support for investment decisions on environmentally relevant installations, however, is rare. Based on a case study of the sector called surface coating, an MCA of environmentally relevant installations is described. With the help of a mass and energy flow management system, alternative scenarios, depicting the use of solvent-reduced materials and environmentally friendly techniques, are modeled for the job coater processes in case studies of coating of mobile phones and coating of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) parts destined for the automobile industry. The modeled scenarios are further analyzed by using a multicriterion decision support module. The application of the outranking approach PROMETHEE is illustrated. A further investigation of the derived ranking can be obtained through sensitivity analyses. Moreover, the results derived by PROMETHEE are compared with the outcomes of the multicriterion approaches multiattribute utility theory and analytical hierarchy process.To date the most common measures of environmental performance used to compare industries, and by extension firms or facilities, have been quantity of pollution emitted or hazardous waste generated. Discharge information, however, does not necessarily capture potential health effects. We propose an alternative environmental performance measure that includes the public health risks of toxic air emissions extended to industry supply chains using economic input-output life-cycle assessment. Cancer risk to the U.S. population was determined by applying a damage function to the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) as modeled by CaITOX, a multimedia multi-pathway fate and exposure model. Risks were then translated into social costs using cancer willingness to pay. For a baseline emissions year of 1998, 260 excess cancer cases were calculated for I 16 TRI chemicals, dominated by ingestion risk from polycyclic aromatic compounds and dioxins emitted by the primary aluminum and cement industries, respectively. The direct emissions of a small number of industry sectors account for most of the U.S. population cancer risk. For the majority of industry sectors, however, cancer risk per $1 million output is associated with supply chain upstream emissions. Ranking industries by total (direct + upstream) supply chain risk per economic output leads to different conclusions about the relative hazards associated with these industries than a conventional ranking based on emissions per economic output.In February 2003, European Union (EU) policy makers implemented a Directive that will make producers responsible for waste electrical and electronic equipment at end-of-life (known as the "WEE" Directive). Under this new legislation, producers are required to organize and finance the take-back, treatment, and recycling of WEEE and achieve mass-based recycling and recovery targets. This legislation is part of a growing trend of extended producer responsibility for waste, which has the potential to shift the world's economies toward more circular patterns of resource use and recycling. This study uses life-cycle assessment and costing to investigate the possible environmental effects of the WEEE Directive, based on an example of printer recycling in the United Kingdom. For a total of four waste management
 scenarios and nine environmental impact categories investigated in this study, results varied, with no scenario emerging as best or worst overall compared to landflling. The level of environmental impact depended on the type of material and waste management processes involved. Additionally, under the broad mass-based targets of the WEEE Directive, the pattern of relationships between recycling rates, environmental impacts, and treatment and recycling costs may lead to unplanned and unwanted results. Contrary to original EU assumptions, the use of mass-based targets may not ensure that producers adapt the design of their products as intended under producer responsibility. It is concluded that the EU should revise the scope of consideration of the WEEE Directive to ensure its life-cycle impacts are addressed. In particular, specific environmental objectives and operating standards for treatment and recycling processes should be investigated as an alternative to mass-based recycling and recovery targets.In order to create an environmentally-conscious building, the environmental impacts of the entire service life must be known. Life-cycle assessment (LCA), which evaluates the impacts from all life-cycle phases, from "cradle to grave," is the best method to achieve this goal. In this paper, LCA is used to quantify the energy use and the environmental emissions during the construction phase of two typical office buildings, one with a structural steel frame and one with a cast-in-place concrete frame, and then these are put in the perspective of the overall service life of each building. The concrete structural-frame construction has more associated energy use, CO2, CO, NO2, particulate matter, SO2, and hydrocarbon emissions due to more formwork used, larger transportation impacts due to a larger mass of materials, and longer equipment use due to the longer installation process. In contrast, the steel-frame construction has more volatile organic compound (VOC) and heavy metal (Cr, Ni, Mn) emissions due to the painting, torch cutting, and welding of the steel members. The energy use and the environmental emissions of the two buildings are comparable if the total impacts from materials' manufacturing, construction, transportation, use, maintenance, and demolition are considered. Energy use and environmental emissions from office buildings can be reduced through a careful selection of embedded and temporary materials and construction equipment.The renewable energy sources are often presented as 'clean' sources, not considering the environmental impacts related to their manufacture. The production of the renewable plants, like every production process, entails a consumption of energy and raw materials as well as the release of pollutants. Furthermore, the impacts related to some life cycle phases (as maintenance or installation) are sometimes neglected or not adequately investigated. The energy and the environmental performances of one of the most common renewable technologies have been studied: the solar thermal collector for sanitary warm water demand. A life cycle assessment (LCA) has been performed following the international standards of series ISO 14040. The aim is to trace the product's eco-profile that synthesises the main energy and environmental impacts related to the whole product's life cycle. The following phases have been investigated
: production and deliver of energy and raw materials, production process, installation, maintenance, disposal and transports occurring during each step. The analysis is carried out on the basis of data directly collected in an Italian factory. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The prediction of a realistic life cycle and the extension of the service life is an important task in reducing costs of civil engineering structures in the future. The paper first gives an overview of the necessary steps of the overall procedure of a precise life cycle assessment. The knowledge of the existing, inherent damage of a structure is an essential prerequisite for life cycle prediction. A theoretical and an experimental approach to determine the inherent damage is described. The paper concludes with the presentation of a fairly precise method to assess the fatigue life cycle of steel bridges. The methods are developed besides others at the Collaborative-Research-Center "Monitoring of Structures" at the Technical University at Braunschweig, Germany.The methods currently used for assessing the environmental impact of agriculture on the scale of a farming region cover a wide range of objectives, users and concepts. To illustrate this variety, this article provides an analysis of six main types of method: environmental risk mapping, life cycle analysis, environmental impact assessment, multi-agent system, linear programming and agro-environmental indicators. Eleven case studies, in which one of the six methods was applied, are used as data in this review. All methods are based on a set of environmental objectives. Some methods also take account of economic and social objectives to produce a more wide-ranging assessment of the sustainability of the agricultural system studied. Each method relies on indicators serving as criteria to evaluate whether the objectives have been attained. These indicators take account of local impacts such as noise, regional impacts such as eutrophication, or global impacts like the greenhouse effect. The characteristics required to develop a method for the environmental impact assessment of a farming region are discussed. The analysis of the interactions between farms is indispensable at this scale of analysis. Indicators based on the environmental effects of farming practices should take precedence over those based on the practices themselves, which do not provide a direct evaluation of environmental impact. Indicators which express an impact both per kg of product and per unit of land area used bring together the essential functions of agriculture, namely production and the occupation of the countryside. The assessment methods should include an analysis of the uncertainty associated with the results. Lastly, the method should be validated with respect to (i) the conception of the method and its indicators, (ii) the consistency of the values of the indicators in relation to observed values, and finally (iii) the suitability of the indicators and more generally of the assessment method for the end users. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.How can the property and construction industry meet the current and forthcoming challenges posed by sustainable development? The perception of property as a commodity is changing to emphasize building characteristics and performance as major determinants of a property's worth and 
market value, thereby requiring new ways of assessing worth and value. Commercial property valuation represents a major mechanism that could allow environmental and social considerations to be more closely aligned with economic return. In particular, the rationale and initial considerations are explored for the incorporation of environmental and social issues into valuation theory and practice. A system that allows for the description, measurement and assessment of various aspects of building performance is conceptualized. Possible sustainability key performance indicators are identified and the basic principles for assessing performance along the life cycle of buildings are explained. It is argued that the environmental and building research community has a central role in determining a standardization of terminology and improving the exchange of ideas between financial and environmental research disciplines. Then, the simultaneous consideration of economic, environmental and social issues can provide a more profound knowledge about property characteristics and associated performance. This will create a more robust assessment approach and lead to greater reliability of assessment results. Finally, the opportunities afforded by the synergies between sustainable design and risk management are identified and implications for property risk assessment for lending and insurance purposes are highlighted.This study focused on the development of a decision support system (DSS) for waterproofing of below-grade structures. The objective was to formulate an optimal solution for waterproofing of below-grade structures according to their parameters and based upon engineering and economic criteria. The model examines the environmental, structural, economic, and service life planning aspects of waterproofing in an integrated manner. The decision support model was based on the following four phases: input interface, preliminary classification, advanced classification, and output interface. The output phase consists of an interactive accessory that provides design details and quality assurance guidelines for each particular case, as well as economic parameters such as life cycle costs and risk of failure. The major contribution of this DSS is its development of a methodological application of integrated decision process, achieved by the use of engineering, economic, and service life criteria. Application of the DSS to several case studies revealed that a number of near-optimal alternatives exist, which differ from one another in terms of constructability, capital costs, and labor inputs. Cost of failure plays a major role in life cycle assessment, and may be a salient factor in the selection of the optimal solution.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a methodology for assessing environmental burdens of products or processes on a cradle-to-grave basis. The impact assessment phase necessitates use of decision analysis methods to account for multiple environmental criteria in the comparison of technological alternatives. Valuation or weighting of the impact criteria is usually accomplished by eliciting relative or absolute scores from an expert. This paper presents an alternative streamlined approach wherein heuristic rules are derived from a set of training data in the form of example alternatives ranked in order of preference by the expert. These decision rules
 are generated using an induction process based on rough set theory. The heuristic rules can subsequently be used to compare and rank new alternatives, and lead to a decision consistent with the expert preferences embodied in the training data. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In order to effectively integrate environmental attributes into the product design and development processes, it is crucial to identify the significant environmental aspects related to a product system within a relatively short period of time. In this study, the usefulness of life cycle assessment (LCA) and a matrix method as tools for identifying the key environmental issues of a product system were examined. For this, a simplified LCA (SLCA) method that can be applied to Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EEE) was developed to efficiently identify their significant environmental aspects for eco-design, since a full scale LCA study is usually very detailed, expensive and time-consuming. The environmentally responsible product assessment (ERPA) method, which is one of the matrix methods, was also analyzed. Then, the usefulness of each method in eco-design processes was evaluated and compared using the case studies of the cellular phone and vacuum cleaner systems. It was found that the SLCA and the ERPA methods provided different information but they complemented each other to some extent. The SLCA method generated more information on the inherent environmental characteristics of a product system so that it might be useful for new design/eco-innovation when developing a completely new product or method where environmental considerations play a major role from the beginning. On the other hand, the ERPA method gave more information on the potential for improving a product so that it could be effectively used in eco-redesign which intends to alleviate environmental impacts of an existing product or process. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The recycling of waste metallic aluminum with high chemical exergy, which consumes a large quantity of electricity in the refining process, is insufficient. In particular, the so-called dross generated during the remelting process a part of recycling requires expensive treatment, particularly when the metallic concentration is less than 20%, before it can be landfilled. The purpose of this study is to produce hydrogen from waste aluminum sources. such as dross, using an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide in a beaker and an autoclave. During the study, the effects of temperature of the aqueous solution on the rate of hydrogen generation are to be chiefly examined. The result obtained from an XRD analysis showed that the white product that precipitated during the experiments contained aluminum hydroxide, the rate of hydrogen generation significantly increased with the concentration of sodium hydroxide and temperature of the aqueous solution. and the activation energy was 68.4kJ mol(-1). In the autoclave experiments, hydrogen is released quickly, along with an increase in the inner pressure to a minimum of 1.0 MPa and an increase in the temperature above 473 K. The results suggested a possibility of a new cost effective process of hydrogen production from waste aluminum along with the by prodution of sodium hydroxide. The life cycle assessment (LCA) of the proposed process for producing not only I kg of hydrogen b
ut also 26 kg aluminum hydroxide from waste aluminum was carried out to assess the energy requirement and amount of carbon dioxide emissions. Results suggest that the energy requirement of our process is only 2% and the amount of carbon dioxide emissions is 4%, in comparison to a conventional method.This paper focuses on the analysis of the total environmental impact of industrial processes in terms of cumulative exergy consumption (CExC). It proposes the concepts of cumulative exergy consumption for treatment of emissions (CExCT) and equivalent cumulative exergy consumption (ECExC) based on an acceptable level. The general formulation of the objective function of ECExC is presented. A detailed formulation of the objective function is used to demonstrate the means of the optimization of the parameters of a heat pump distillation, providing the merits of ECExC compared with economics.Hybrid photovoltaic/thermal (PV/T) solar systems provide a simultaneous conversion of solar radiation into electricity and heat. In these devices, the PV modules are mounted together with heat recovery units, by which a circulating fluid allows one to cool them down during their operation. An extensive study on water-cooled PV/ T solar systems has been conducted at the University of Patras, where hybrid prototypes have been experimentally studied. In this paper the electrical and thermal efficiencies are given and the annual energy output under the weather conditions of Patras is calculated for horizontal and tilted building roof installation. In addition, the costs of all system parts are included and the cost payback time is estimated. Finally, the methodology of life cycle assessment (LCA) has been applied to perform an energy and environmental assessment of the analysed system. The goal of this study, carried out at the University of Rome 'La Sapienza' by means of SimaPro 5.1 software, was to verify the benefits of heat recovery. The concepts and results of this work on energy performance, economic aspects and LCA results of modified PV and water-cooled PV/T solar systems, give a clear idea of their application advantages. From the results, the most important conclusion is that PV/T systems are cost effective and of better environmental impact compared with standard PV modules. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.A life cycle assessment (LCA) study has been carried out to investigate the environmental aspects of two types of aviation fuel, kerosene that is presently used and hydrogen. Hydrogen is selected as a future aircraft fuel because of the absence of CO2 emissions from its use, its high energy content and its combustion kinetics. The life cycle of aviation fuel includes the production and the use of the aviation fuel in different types of aircraft. Hydrogen production by natural gas steam reforming and production upon renewable energy sources (RES) are examined. A very large number of environmental burdens result from the operation of the different fuel cycles. Air pollution is by far the biggest environmental problem that is resulting from hydrogen and kerosene production and use. This work has been mainly concentrated with this environmental impact category. It is shown that the production of hydrogen from RES has significantly lower environmental impact as compared to that of kerosene. However, the use of different RES carries different envi
ronmental impacts among them. The production of hydrogen resulting from the use of photovoltaics to capture solar energy carries the biggest environmental impact among the other RES, wind, hydropower, biomass and solar thermal. &COPY; 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The objective of this research was to quantify the environmental credit of the granulated blast furnace slag (GBFS) recycling, and then to propose a recycling option best suited for the maximization of the environmental credit. The most appropriate method for the quantification of the environmental credit resulting from the recycling of byproducts is the system expansion method. The system expansion method was applied to the recycling of GBFS from the iron and steel manufacturing process for the quantification of its environmental credit. GBFS has been recycled to raw materials for Portland cement, slag cement, slag powder and silicate fertilizer. Environmental credit of each recycling application was calculated from three different perspectives: life cycle inventory on CO2, characterized impact on global warming, and weighted impact of the product system based on the Eco-indicator 99 method. Maximum environmental credit of the GBFS recycling occurs when recycled to raw materials for slag cement and Portland cement. &COPY; 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Mastitis is defined as an inflammatory reaction of udder tissue to bacterial, chemical, thermal or mechanical injury, which causes heavy financial losses and milk wastage throughout the world. Until now, studies have focused on the economic aspects from which perspective mastitis can generally be considered as the most serious disease in dairy cows; however, costs are not the only negative consequence resulting from the infection. The environmental impact is also significant; milk is discarded, which means lower efficiency and hence a greater environmental impact per produced liter of milk. Less milk is produced, which leads to an increased need for calf feed, and meat production is also affected. The main aim of this paper was to quantify the environmental impact of mastitis incidence. A standard scenario (representative of present-day reality in Galicia, Spain) and an improved scenario (in which mastitis incidence rate is reduced by diverse actions) have been defined and compared using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. Among the impact categories studied, acidification, eutrophication and global warming were found to be the most significant environmental impacts. In all these categories, it was revealed that a decrease in mastitis incidence has a positive influence as the environmental impact is reduced. Even if the quantitative results cannot show a considerable decrease in the environmental burden, the impact cannot be regarded as negligible when the total consumption or total production of a region is considered. For example, the outcome of the proposed improvement measures for Spain's greenhouse gas emissions can be quantified as 0.06% of total emissions and 0.56% of emissions by the agricultural sector. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Technical constraints can leave a considerable freedom in the design of a technology, production or service strategy. Choosing between economical or ecological decision criteria then characteristically leads to controversial solutions of ideal systems. For t
he adaptation of granular-activated carbon (GAC) fixed beds, various technical factors determine the adsorber volume required to achieve a desired service life. In considering carbon replacement and recycling, a variety of refill strategies are available that differ in terms of refill interval, respective adsorber volume, and time-dependent use of virgin, as well as recycled GAC. Focusing on the treatment of contaminant groundwater, we compare cost-optimal reactor configurations and refill strategies to the ecologically best alternatives. Costs and consumption of GAC are quantified within a technical-economical framework. The emissions from GAC production out of hard coal, transport and recycling are equally derived through a life cycle impact assessment. It is shown how high discount rates lead to a preference of small fixed-bed volumes, and accordingly, a high number of refills. For fixed discount rates, the investigation reveals that both the economical as well as ecological assessment of refill strategies are especially sensitive to the relative valuation of virgin and recycled GAC. Since recycling results in economic and ecological benefits, optimized systems thus may differ only slightly. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Fuel cell vehicles (FCVs) offer the potential of ultra-low emissions combined with high efficiency. Proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cells being developed for vehicles require hydrogen as a fuel. Due to the various pathways of hydrogen generation, both onboard and off-board, the question about which fuel option is the most competitive for fuel cell vehicles is of great current interest. In this paper, a life-cycle assessment (LCA) model was made to conduct a comprehensive study of the energy, environmental, and economic (3E) impacts of FCVs from well to wheel (WTW). In view of the special energy structure of China and the timeframe, 10 vehicle/fuel systems are chosen as the study projects. The results show that methanol is the most suitable fuel to serve as the ideal hydrogen source for fuel cell vehicles in the timeframe and geographic regions of this study. On the other hand, gasoline and pure hydrogen can also play a role in short-term and regional applications, especially for local demonstrations of FCV fleets. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.Sustainable development and environmental protection require green products, processes, and waste management strategies. The selection and design of green and clean processes and products involve handling a huge set of data related to the environment, economics and technologies. Therefore, it is essential to employ a comprehensive technique to guide decision-making under uncertainty that can incorporate these factors. The paper presents decision-making under uncertainty based on life cycle analysis and considering environmental, technological, and economical drivers in the analysis. The methodology, GreenPro-1, is applicable at any stage of a process design and can be used to evaluate the environmental burdens of a product or a process throughout its life cycle, and to identify and assess opportunities to make improvements. A weighting scheme is used to integrate various criteria and policies so that a most appropriate alternative can be selected. The GreenPro-1 methodology is applied to a case study for offshore produced water management. In the firs
t stage, 14 best available technologies (BAT) for treatment of produced water are evaluated individually using cradle-to-gate life cycle analysis. In the second stage, seven treatment strategies are developed from BAT and are further investigated. A treatment strategy that combines a hydrocyclone and produced water re-injection proved to be the best system among selected strategies. The combination of hydrocyclone and adsorption was found to be the next best treatment strategy. Two other noteworthy strategies were membrane and centrifuge combination, and down-hole separation and injection. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.With their missions and access to disposal sites changing over the last decade, radioactive waste management and decommissioning practice in the U.S. commercial and federal nuclear markets has evolved to keep pace. This paper reviews the changes that have occurred and the differing waste management practices that have resulted depending on whether a nuclear facility is Situated on federally owned or privately owned property in the United States, confirming that the cost of disposal generally dictates waste management and decommissioning practices. Of the 123 utility-owned licensed commercial reactors in U.S., 19 are undergoing decommissioning, with the balance of 104 reactors focusing on plant life extension, power upgrades, and power generation. As a result almost all of the approximately $400 million in annual expenditures on waste processing and disposal comes from waste generated from operations. In contrast, the U.S. Department of, Energy (DOE), under its Environmental Management (EM) program, is focused on decommissioning the facilities, tanks, and ground contamination resulting from 50-years of Cold War activities and spending about S 7 billion a year on these activities. Other than spent fuel, U.S. federal law precludes disposal of commercial nuclear power plant radioactive wastes at DOE disposal sites. In contrast to the commercial disposal market, which must go through extensive public hearings and decision-making, the DOE has a much freer hand in siting new disposal capacity on federal land. As a result, the DOE has ample disposal capacity, "routinely" opens new disposal sites, and enjoys disposal pricing well below the commercial market. Waste composition, volume, and activity levels drive disposal costs, which is the key lifecycle parameter in determining radioactive waste management practice. Differences in these parameters drive the differences in how radioactive waste management practice is performed in the commercial and DOE markets. Given that DOE disposal costs are about 1/10th to 1/100th that of commercial costs, the differences in disposal costs result in disposal avoidance as key utility LLW management approach and direct disposal as the key US DOE LLW management approach. In conclusion, it appears that, given the same regulatory environment, the cost of disposal generally dictates waste management and decommissioning practices due to the strong impact on life cycle analysis.Environmental assessments in pesticide product development are generally restricted to plant uptake and emissions of active ingredients. Life-cycle assessment (LCA) enables a more comprehensive evaluation by additionally assessing the impacts of pesticide production and application (e.g. tractor operations). The use of
 LCA in the product development of pesticides, in addition to the methods commonly applied, is therefore advisable. In this paper a procedure for conducting LCA in early phases of product development is proposed. In a case study, two plant-growth regulators from different product generations were compared regarding their application in intensive production of winter wheat. The results showed that the reduced emissions from active ingredients of the newer pesticide were compensated by higher impacts from the production process. The authors draw the conclusion that it is important to consider environmental objectives in the procurement of precursors, in addition to the classical goals of increasing the efficacy and reducing the nontarget effects of pesticides. Moreover, the case study showed that decisions based on uncertain results in early stages of product development may need to be revised in later stages, e.g. based on investigations of pesticides' effects on crop yield.The contribution of consumer purchases of non-essential products to environmental pollution is characterized. Purchase decisions by consumers induce a complex sequence of economy-wide production interactions that influence the production and consumption of chemicals and subsequent exposure and possible public health risks. An economic input-output life-cycle analysis (EIO-LCA) was used to link resource consumption and production by manufacturers to corresponding environmental impacts. Using the US Department of Commerce's input-output tables together with the US Environmental Protection Agency's Toxics Release Inventory and AIRData databases, the economy-wide air discharges resulting from purchases of household appliances, motor homes, and games and toys were quantified. The economic and environmental impacts generated from a hypothetical 10,000 US dollar purchase for selected consumer items were estimated. The analysis shows how purchases of seemingly benign consumer products increase the output of air pollutants along the supply chain and contribute to the potential risks associated with environmental chemical exposures to both consumers and non-consumers alike.Producer responsibility and take-back legislation in Europe place responsibility on the manufactures for the recovery and recycling of end-of-life products. This will inevitably require the manufacturers to rethink the way products are designed and manufactured in order to improve their recyclability. This paper illustrates on the case of a fibre optic cable how this can be achieved in a practical and relatively easy way, leading to both environmental and economic benefits. The case study compares the current design the 96 fibre optic cable with several proposed design modifications with the aim of identifying the design option that would enable an easy end-of-life disassembly and recycling of component materials. The designs are evaluated on a life cycle basis for both economic and environmental impacts using the CHAin management of Materials and Products (CHAMP) methodology. CHAMP combines elements of process and design engineering with life cycle approaches to enable the user to explore technical, economic and environmental consequences of different material, process and technological options, including material recovery and recycling. CHAMP is therefore particularly well suited for addressing the requiremen
ts of the take-back and producer responsibility legislation. The results of LCA and life cycle costing obtained by using CHAMP show that cable re-design can reduce the environmental impacts by between 30 and 60% and can lead to a 40% reduction in economic costs. This is achieved by changing the internal structure of the cable, by removing some of the cable components (e.g. aluminium and organic gels) and by recycling some of the materials. Transport (including reverse logistics), processing and landfill also contribute to the overall impacts, but their contribution is less significant than that from the materials used to manufacture the cable. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.A main reason for the persistence of current water pollution lies in the diffuse character of many of its sources. For a large part such diffuse pollution is related to the production, use and waste of various kinds of products. For the reduction of this pollution, a product-oriented policy strategy, based on interaction with stakeholders could be more successful than the traditional measures of direct regulation that were devised for point source reduction. In this article we identify different types of product policy, and explore the potential benefits and costs for water quality management. The methods that can be used in a product policy approach are illustrated with some examples. Although the specific advantages for water quality management have not been quantified yet, governments increasingly recognise the potential positive effects. In this context, the European Water Framework Directive, in stimulating product policy by enhancing public and stakeholders' participation, can be considered to be part of a general development towards interactive water management.The traditional life cycle assessment (LCA) does not perform quantitative uncertainty analysis. However, without characterizing the associated uncertainty, the reliability of assessment results cannot be understood or ascertained. In this study, the Bayesian method, in combination with the Monte Carlo technique, is used to quantify and update the uncertainty in LCA results. A case study of applying the method to comparison of alternative waste treatment options in terms of global warming potential due to greenhouse gas emissions is presented. In the case study, the prior distributions of the parameters used for estimating emission inventory and environmental impact in LCA were based on the expert judgment from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC) guideline and were subsequently updated using the likelihood distributions resulting from both national statistic and site-specific data. The posterior uncertainty distribution of the LCA results was generated using Monte Carlo simulations with posterior parameter probability distributions. The results indicated that the incorporation of quantitative uncertainty analysis into LCA revealed more information than the deterministic LCA method, and the resulting decision may thus be different. In addition, in combination with the Monte Carlo simulation, calculations of correlation coefficients facilitated the identification of important parameters that had major influence to LCA results. Finally, by using national statistic data and site-specific information to update the prior uncertainty distribution, the resultant uncertainty associated 
with the LCA results could be reduced. A better informed decision can therefore be made based on the clearer and more complete comparison of options. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Today the chemical and process engineering especially involving chemical reactor engineering has to answer to the changing needs of the chemical and related process industries such as petroleum, petrochemical, bituminous, pharmaceutical and health, agro and food, environment, iron and steel, building materials, paints, glass, surfactants, electronics, cosmetic and perfume, etc., and to meet market demands. So being a key to survival in globalisation of trade and competition, the evolution of chemical engineering is thus necessary. And to satisfy both, the market requirements for specific end-use properties of the products manufactured in (bio)chemical reactors and the social and the resource-saving and environmental constraints of the industrial-scale processes and technologies, it is shown that a necessary progress is coming via a multidisciplinary and time and length multiscale approach. In such a frame the future for the science and technologies of new materials can be summarized by four main objectives: (1) a total multiscale control of the process (or the procedure) to increase selectivity and productivity, i.e., nanotailoring of materials with controlled structure; (2) a design of novel equipment based on scientific principles and new operation modes and methods of production: process intensification; (3) product design and engineering: manufacturing end-use properties with a special emphasis on complex fluids and solids technology; (4) an implementation of the multiscale and multidisciplinary computational chemical engineering modelling and simulation to real-life situations: from the molecule to the overall complex production scale into the entire production site. Moreover, chemical and process engineering will also be increasingly involved and concerned with the application of life cycle assessment to new material design and production and its use but also to the plant and the equipment together with the associated services. (c) 2004 Published by Elsevier B.V.Land use, land use change and forestry (LULUCF) offer domestic and international opportunities to accomplish the targets set by the Kyoto Protocol. Design and selection of successful forestry projects are complex decision processes based on information of the carbon dioxide mitigation potential, the environmental impacts and the cost efficiency of selected scenarios. In this paper, a decision support framework to evaluate forestry scenarios for greenhouse gas emission reduction is presented and tested on five scenarios (existing and new multifunctional forest in Flanders, Belgium, bioenergy crop with short rotation poplar and with elephant grass in Flanders, Belgium, plantation forestry in the subtropics, and, conservation of tropical rainforest). The framework is organized as a serial connection of a carbon accounting module, an environmental impact module and an economic module. Modules include a combination of models and quantitative assessment procedures. In order to make scenarios comparable, the environmental and economic modules calculate their outputs on a functional unit basis of 1 t CO(2) emission reduction. The framework is universally applicable and straightforward, transpa
rent and quantitative. The level of data requirement is medium, but the application is fairly complex due to the interdisciplinary character of the tool. Further developments would require automated data flows between models and a user interface. Results of the test application showed that the only attractive domestic option is the establishment of new multifunctional forests. This scenario even yields a net benefit because it replaces the generally loss-making agriculture and, in addition, it provides other environmental and recreational benefits. The establishment of bioenergy plantations is a very efficient way of reducing CO(2) emissions as far as land occupation and environmental impacts per functional unit are concerned. However, it also turns out to be a very expensive option. Plantation forestry in the tropics is advantageous when evaluated over longer periods of time. Conservation of tropical forest is not eligible as a clean development mechanism (CDM) project, although it would be economically attractive for Flanders since the cost per tonne CO(2) emission reduction is close to the expected world market price. This option is thus promising for the voluntary market and for future commitment periods of the Kyoto Protocol. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Research linking accounting to the emerging concept of sustainability surfaced in the early 1990s and has received continuing attention in academic and professional accounting literature. This paper tracks this brief history through to the release of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in August 2002, consolidating the various approaches into a sustainability accounting framework. The result is a comprehensive reporting model that presents an enormous challenge to business organisations, requiring a significant commitment of resources to achieve widespread implementation. Failure to meet this challenge enables business organisations to continue to avoid accountability for their continuing unsustainability. The paper concludes with a personal view as to how implementation of the sustainability accounting framework could proceed. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A technology assessment of thermal treatment technologies for wastes was performed in the form of scenarios of chains of technologies. The Swedish assessment tool, ORWARE. was used for the assessment. The scenarios. of chains of thermal technologies assessed were gasification with catalytic combustion. gasification with flame combustion, incineration and landfilling. The landfilling scenario was used as a reference for comparison. The technologies were assessed from ecological and economic points of view. The results are presented in terms of global warming potential. acidification potential. eutrophication potential, consumption of primary energy carriers and welfare costs. From the simulations. gasification followed by catalytic combustion with energy recovery in a combined cycle appeared to be the most competitive technology from an ecological point of view. On the other hand, this alternative was more expensive than incineration. A sensitivity analysis was done regarding electricity prices to show which technology wins at what value of the unit price of electricity (SEK/kWh). Within this study, it was possible to make a comparison both between a comb
ined cycle and a Rankine cycle (a system pair) and at the same time between flame combustion and catalytic combustion (a technology pair). To use gasification just as a treatment technology is not more appealing than incineration. but the possibility of combining gasification with a combined cycle is attractive in terms of electricity production. This research was done in connection with an empirical R&D work on both gasification of waste and catalytic combustion of the gasified waste at the Division of Chemical Technology., Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Sweden. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Due to advances in nanotechnology, the approach to catalytic design is transitioning from trial-and-error to planned design and control. Expected advances should enable the design and construction of catalysts to increase reaction speed, yield, and catalyst durability while also reducing active species loading levels. Nanofabrication techniques enabling precise control over the shape, size, and position of nanoscale platinum-group metal (PGM) particles in automotive catalysts should result in reduced PGM loading levels. These reductions would decrease energy consumption, improve environmental quality, and contribute to sustainable resource usage. We estimate the amount of PGM required to meet U.S. vehicle emissions standards through 2030 based on current catalysttechnology. We then estimate the range of PGM that could be saved from potential nanotechnology advances. Finally, we employ economic input-output and process-based life cycle assessment models to estimate the direct and life cycle benefits from reducing PGM mining and refining.Life cycle assessments of a range of wastewater treatment processes have been undertaken. At lower consent standards rotating biological contactors and biological filters exhibit lower environmental burdens for the required functionality than other process options. However, at tighter consents this distinction becomes less clear. Attempts to reduce environmental burdens should focus on operational energy requirements (which dominate burden profiles and, where appropriate, on synthetic materials used for bio-mass growth). However, differences between dry and operational weight, and the consequent size of necessary foundation structures are likely to limit opportunities for reducing overall burden profiles through material substitution. Comparison of processes across population equivalents suggests economies of scale may favour adopting larger scale plant, although there are additional factors yet to be included in this analysis. Further-more, adopting different waste disposal routes during the demolition phase is unlikely to have a distinct impact on burden profiles.This article gives a state of the art overview on quantitative analyses from Norway and Sweden of Life cycle analyses (LCA), which compare the environmental impacts of substitution between wood and alternative materials, with emphasis on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, economics and methodological issues. In all studies referred to this overview, wood is a better alternative than other materials with regard to GHG emissions. Furthermore, wood is causing less emissions of SO2 and generates less waste compared to the alternative materials. Preservative treated wood, on the other hand, might have toxicological impacts on human health and ecos
ystems. Impacts on acidification, eutrofication and creation of photochemical ozone vary in different comparisons. Amount of greenhouse gases avoided due to substitution between wood and steel is in the range of 36-530 kg CO2-equivalents per in 3 input of timber with 4% discount rate; depending on waste management of the materials, and how carbon fixation on forest land is included. This amount is 93-1062 kg CO2-equivalents for substitution between wood and concrete, if the wood is not landfilled after use. Many of the LCAs could be considerably improved, if the analyses were done with several alternative assumptions regarding boundaries of the system used in the LCA. This is important, not least to map what are the main assumptions for the results obtained and to compare with other studies. It is also important to consider the time-profile of the GHG emissions and other impacts over the life-cycle-it is surprising that this is not taken more seriously. Wood as a building material is competitive on price in those studies that include costs. It is a weak point of many LCAs that costs as well as other economic aspects influencing product substitution are not included, and a major research challenge is to combine traditional LCA with economic analysis in order to make both more policy relevant. In particular, one should develop dynamic input/output models where price and income substitutions as well as technological changes and cost components are included endogenously. (c) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.European Union agri-environmental schemes aim to reduce the environmental impact of agricultural production, but were developed before consideration of greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. Life cycle assessment methodology provided a framework for comparing emissions as kg CO2 equivalent per kg of energy corrected milk (ECM) (kg CO2 kg(-1) ECM yr(-1)) and per hectare (kg CO2 ha(-1) yr(-1)) for farms both within and outside the Irish agri-environmental scheme. The agri-environmental scheme farms operate extensive systems from 40 to 120 cows producing between 3032 and 5946 kg ECM cow(-1) lactation(-1). The cows are fed on grass, conserved silage, and concentrates. Supplementation ranged between 250 and 620 kg cow(-1) yr(-1). The conventional farms had between 30 and 77 milking cows producing 4736 to 6944 kg ECM cow(-1) lactation(-1). Supplementation ranged from 400 to 1000 kg cow-' yr-1. The emissions from each unit were estimated using published emissions factors and possible error was evaluated by using ranges for each factor. Calculated emissions ranged from 0.92 to 1.51 kg CO2 kg(-1) ECM yr(-1) and 5924 to 8323 kg CO2 ha(-1). On average, total emissions from conventional farms were around 18% (p = 0.01) greater than the agri-environmental scheme farms and emissions per hectare (total area required) were 17% greater (p = 0.02) but there was no significant difference (p = 0.335) in terms of emission per unit milk produced. To evaluate greenhouse gas emissions for each farm in terms of the system intensity it was necessary to define a measure of intensification and area per liter of milk produced that was best.Concrete infrastructure represents an enormous investment of materials, energy, and capital, and results in significant environmental burdens and social costs. There is an ongoing effort to identify material alternatives t
o conventional concrete. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an important tool to evaluate the environmental performance of alternative infrastructure materials and systems. Here, we present a comparative LCA of two bridge deck systems over a 60 year service life: one using conventional steel expansion joints and the other based on a link slab design using a concrete alternative, engineered cementitious composites (ECC). The ECC link slab design is expected to extend the bridge deck service life and reduce maintenance activities. A life cycle model was developed that accounts for materials production and distribution, construction and maintenance processes, construction-related traffic congestion, and end-of-life management. Results indicate that the ECC bridge deck system has significant advantages in environmental performance: 40% less life cycle energy consumption, 50% less solid waste generation, and 38% less raw material consumption. Construction related traffic congestion is the greatest contributor to most life cycle impact categories.With heightened public concern about the environmental impacts (e.g. global warming, ozone layer depletion) of products and manufacturing processes, the evaluation of environmental impacts during the lifecycle of the products has become a crucial issue. Life cycle assessment (LCA) has been developed to evaluate environmental impact of existing products and existing manufacturing processes, but the current LCA tools are not suitable for the evaluation of whole product lifecycles and cannot evaluate the logistics of product lifecycles, which are crucial factor in designing feasible and efficient product lifecycles. This paper proposes a modelling and simulation environment called Green Production and Logistics Simulator (GPLS) for evaluation and design of green product lifecycles. The proposed environment employs the concepts of modular modelling, model template, Multi-Dimensional Formalism (MDF) and process inventory, and has the ability to model costs, qualities and logistics. MDF defines a paradigm for the explicit representation of physical, behavioural, and operational perspectives or dimensions of the plant, process, and product. This is the basis for the development of simulation environments in which various product lifecycle alternatives are explored with the same simulation models. The case study, in which the PET bottle resin lifecycle was modelled and simulated, was implemented as a software tool and was shown to be convenient and efficient means to evaluate various product lifecycle alternatives.The contribution of rice production to the three major greenhouse gases CO2, CH4 and N2O in 1990, the base year of the Kyoto protocol is investigated for Japan. For the CO2 assessment, we use a top-down life cycle approach, CH4 is assessed using the Japanese GHG emission inventory and N2O is assessed according to the ratio of rice area divided by the total area of agricultural soils. In total, 1.6% of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 1990 originated from rice production. Next, we assess regional variations in nine rice-producing regions, based on the CO2 data of 1990. General trends in rice production from 1960 to 2000 and data from the Japanese GHG emission inventory since 1990 are used to assess variations in time. The rice-related GHG emissions decreased to 1.05% of the total GHG emissions in 2001 an
d will be less than half the 1990 level in 2012, mainly due to the decrease in rice production. Contrary to the trend in GHG emissions of rice, overall GHG emissions increased as rice production fulfils important roles, in mitigating global warming and in adapting to changing climates. The protection of rice production is required to counter the increase of GHG emissions in transportation, waste and domestic sectors and to minimize problems related to landscape, water and natural hazard management.The philosophy underlying the green and sustainable chemistry and EPA's definitions of green chemistry, green engineering, and sustainable chemistry are described, quant. measures of sustainable chemistry are presented and societal aspects are discussed. 67 refs.Life-cycle modeling for design (LCMD) is a methodology for assessing the life-cycle impacts for a complex product with many individual components starting from initial design phases when few design specifications have been made. The methodology combines life-cycle assessment (LCA) with probabilistic design methods in a way that forecasts attributes of possible final designs yet reduces information needs. Specifically, LCMD is a methodology for generating arrays of design scenarios that communicate the range of designs being considered by a design team, and estimating missing data for those design scenarios. The main contribution to enhancing standard LCA is the incorporation of methods to estimate physical attributes of individual components for various design options and in four analyses for evaluating the arrays of design scenarios. An automotive case study presented in part 2 of this work demonstrates one application of LCMD.Life cycle modeling for design (LCMD) facilitates the incorporation of life cycle modeling into product design by including consideration of uncertainty in a product's final specifications. The methodology combines Life Cycle Assessment with probabilistic design methods in a way that reduces information needs. Part 1 of this article presents the basic LCMD methodology. Here, in Part 2, LCMD is used to evaluate material substitution opportunities to reduce resource consumption, reduce life cycle air emissions, and increase the recyclable mass for a Ford C-class sedan. In addition to further illustrating LCMD, the case study identifies vehicle design scenarios that offer modest improvements in environmental performance and related cost tradeoffs.This paper compares the life cycle energy use of a cast-aluminum, rear liftgate inner and a conventional. stamped steel liftgate inner used in a minivan. Using the best available aggregate life cycle inventory data and a simple spreadsheet-level analysis, energy comparisons were made at both the single-vehicle and vehicle-fleet levels. Since the product manufacture and use are distributed over long periods of time that, in a fleet, are not simple linear combinations of single product life cycles. Thus, it is all the products in use over a period of time, rather than a single product, that are more appropriate for the life cycle analysis. Using a set of consistent data, analyses also examine sensitivity to the level of analysis and the assumptions to determine the most favorable materials with respect to life cycle energy benefits. As expected, life cycle energy impacts of aluminum are lower than steel at a single-vehicle lev
el energy savings are determined to be 1.8 GJ/vehicle. Most energy savings occur at the vehicle operation phase due to improved fuel economy from lightweighting. The energy benefits are realized only very close to the average vehicle life of 14 years. With the incremental growth of the vehicle fleet, it takes longer-about 21 years-for aluminum to achieve life cycle equivalence with steel. The number of years aluminum needs to achieve equivalence with steel was found to be quite sensitive to aluminum manufacturing energy and fuel economy. As the steel industry races to compete with other materials for automotive lightweighting, a systems approach, instead of part-to-part comparison, is more appropriate in the determination of viability of aluminum substitution from an energy perspective. Published by Elsevier B.V.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an ISO standardized method designed to evaluate the impact of human activities on the environment using objective and measurable indicators. To be effective an LCA analysis should be cost-efficient in data gathering and the methods used for calculating the impact categories ought to be universally applicable. The land use impact category of an LCA deals with impacts of land occupation and land use change on water balance, soil and vegetation. This paper proposes to use a modelling approach to generate indicators for the land use impact Of CO2 emission reduction projects on the ecosystem water balance. The rate variables of the water balance selected to describe the land use impacts are evapotranspiration, surface runoff, discharge, groundwater recharge and soil loss through water erosion. They are simulated making use of the SWAT model. The paper describes the application of the proposed methodology for two locations with different site characteristics and land use patterns. Special attention was paid to aspects of data availability and reliability. Comparison of the simulation results with literature data revealed that SWAT provides reasonable results, which can be used for assessing the land use impact in LCA. The sensitivity analysis indicated low dependency of the model output to minor and moderate changes in model input, with the exception of changes in precipitation and leaf area index (LAI). The study also indicated that the land use library in SWAT needs further development to become universally applicable for LCA purposes. A scenario analysis allowed us to predict the impact of land occupation on the hydrology and erosion of both study areas. Finally, the LCA indicators giving the impact on the water balance per functional unit were calculated by expressing the SWAT outputs per kilogram Of CO2 emission reduction. Copyright (C) 2005 John Wiley Sons, Ltd.Pig production systems often depend to a large extent on concentrated feed imported from outside the farm. This study used the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method to assess major environmental impacts associated with the production and on-farm delivery of concentrated feed for pigs. Feed composition was based on average data for Bretagne (France) in 1998 and on published data for wheat-based, maize-based and co-product based feeds. As crop and feed production practices in Bretagne are similar to those in most of western Europe, we conclude that the results of this study apply more largely for western Europe. Depending on feed composition and fe
rtilisation practise for crop-based feed ingredients, the production and delivery of one kg of feed for finishing pigs will produce a eutrophication potential between 3.8 and 9.3 g PO4-equivalents, a global warming potential between 472 and 792 g CO2-equivalents, an acidification potential between 3.0 and 6.3 g SO2-equivalents, a terrestrial ecotoxicity potential between 0.4 and 8.7 g 1,4-dichlorobenzene-equivalents, an energy use between 3.3 and 6.1 MJ, and land use between 1.44 and 2.07 m(2) year. These impacts are mainly due to the production of crop-based ingredients. The contribution of transport processes was substantial for climate change, acidification and energy use. A feed containing mainly co-products had higher energy use and lower terrestrial ecotoxicity than feeds consisting mainly of non-processed crop-based ingredients. Hypotheses with respect to the fertilisation practices for the feed's main ingredients have a major effect on its impact values. The effect of uncertainty concerning the emissions of N2O, NH3, and NO3 was very large for climate change, and large for acidification and eutrophication. The environmental burdens associated with the production and delivery of pig feed can be decreased by: optimising the fertilisation of its crop based ingredients, using more locally produced feed ingredients, reducing concentrations of Cu and Zn in the feed, and using wheat-based rather than maize-based feeds. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Fluoro-nitric acid-used in the semiconductor industry as a washing agent is of high purity and high concentration (fluoric acid: 23.3%, nitric acid: 16.6%). It is recovered using separation and control in the semiconductor industry. A technology-for utilizing this acid by product as-a pickling. solution for stainless steel sheets in the steel industry was developed. The results of a, Life-Cycle. Assessment study showed that a cascade of 10 tons of acid byproducts reduces-energy consumption by 4.0 tons in crude oil conversion value, CO2 emissions by 4.3 tons, and sludge generation-by 24.8 tons. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents a method using building materials' environmental profiles to assess their environmental impacts based on the life-cycle assessment (LCA) framework. In this method, the environmental impacts are categorized and the "green tax" is used to study the inter-seriousness across different categories. The green tax including the pollutant tax and resource tax is the shadow price of pollutants or resources, revealing the social willingness-to-pay (WTP) for them. The green tax of a specific pollutant could be modified if the local special preference is considered. The final assessment result produced by this method represents the social WTP for the environmental impacts of the building material. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The environmental and human health impacts of engineering activities have reshaped the way engineers make decisions. Increasingly, engineering decision-making is taking into consideration the full life cycle implications of engineering activities. This paper details the development and application of a national economic input-output-based life cycle assessment model, a tool for guiding engineering decision-making, for the Canadian economy. The model consists of 61 industries and 103 commodities and incorpor
ates economic and environmental-resource data, including marginal resource consumption, energy use, releases of National Pollutant Release Inventory compounds, and emissions of greenhouse gases. The model is useful for evaluating various development strategies and analyzing the potential direct and indirect impacts of alternative public policies on the Canadian economy and environment. The model is applied to various sectors of the Canadian economy, and the life-cycle implications of demands for different commodities are determined, including demand for electricity and construction materials for highway design.Research in the area of sustainable urban infrastructure reflects the need to design and manage engineering systems in light of both environmental and socioeconomic considerations. A principal challenge for the engineer is the development of practical tools for measuring and enhancing the sustainability of urban infrastructure over its life cycle. The present study develops such a framework for the sustainability assessment of urban infrastructure systems. The framework focuses on key interactions and feedback mechanisms between infrastructure and surrounding environmental, economic, and social systems. One way of understanding and quantifying these interacting effects is through the use of sustainability criteria and indicators. A generic set of sustainability criteria and subcriteria and system-specific indicators is put forward. Selected indicators are quantified in a case study of the urban water system of the City of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.Petroleum sludge is a complex mixture of hydrocarbons, water, metals, and suspended fine solids. The objective of this research was to develop a technique that will lead to the separation of phases ready for further reuse. A study was carried out to investigate a combination of various systems of electrokinetic cells, to which oily sludge, conditioning liquids, and different electrical potentials were applied. The developed electrokinetic phase separation is a new cost-effective technology, which in turn will permit the revitalization of petroleum sludge. This method can significantly reduce the amount of wasted sludge and can recover new fuels free of metals and water. Life cycle analysis of the recovered fuel shows that a new petroleum waste management protocol might reduce emissions of major greenhouse gases such as CO2, CH4, and N2O by 40 026 000, 1057, and 566 kg, respectively, per refinery per year.This study applies Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology to present an eco-balance of a recycling plant that treats spent lead-acid batteries. The recycling plant uses pyrometallurgical treatment to obtain lead from spent batteries. The application of LCA methodology (ISO 14040 series) enabled us to assess the potential environmental impacts arising from the recycling plant's operations, Thus, net emissions of greenhouse gases as well as other major environmental consequences were examined and hot spots inside the recycling plant were identified. A sensitivity analysis was also performed on certain variables to evaluate their effect on the LCA study. The LCA of a recycling plant for spent lead-acid batteries presented shows that this methodology allows all of the major environmental consequences associated with lead recycling using the pyrometallurgical process to be examined. The study h
ighlights areas in which environmental improvements are easily achievable by a business, providing a basis for suggestions to minimize the environmental impact of its production phases, improving process and company performance in environmental terms.In life-cycle assessment (LCA) and comparative risk assessment, potential human exposure to toxic pollutants can be expressed as the population intake fraction (iF), which represents the fraction of the quantity emitted that enters the human population. To assess the influence of model differences in the calculation of the population iF ingestion and inhalation iFs of 365 substances emitted to air, freshwater, and soil were calculated with two commonly applied multimedia fate and exposure models, CalTOX and the uniform system for evaluation of substances adapted for life-cycle assessment (USES-LCA). The model comparison showed that differences in the iFs due to model choices were the lowest after emission to air and the highest after emission to soil. Inhalation iFs were more sensitive to model differences compared to ingestion iFs. The choice for a continental seawater compartment, vertical stratification of the soil compartment, rain and no-rain scenarios, and drinking water purification mainly clarify the relevant model differences found in population iFs. Furthermore, pH correction of chemical properties and aerosol-associated deposition on plants appeared to be important for dissociative organics and metals emitted to air, respectively. Finally, it was found that quantitative structure-activity relationship estimates for superhydrophobics may introduce considerable uncertainty in the calculation of population intake fractions.Fuel cells are still a new technology, and the scientific community is in dire need for reliable data on their environmental performance. In this paper a multi-criteria life cycle assessment of a prototype molten carbonate fuel cells plant is performed; the results are subject to a systematic sensitivity analysis and compared to those for three natural gas turbine plants. Results indicate an overall good environmental performance, even when compared to modem gas turbines. Possible further improvements should focus on reducing the requirement for the employed metals (e.g. Ni, Cr), as well as increasing fuel cell life time and centralising the natural gas reforming phase. (C) 2004 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Expanded polystyrene (EPS) and corrugated paperboard (CPB) are used in many industrial applications, such as containers, shock absorbers or simply as inserts. Both materials pose two different types of environmental problems. The first is the pollution and resource consumption that occur during the production of these materials; the second is the growing landfills that arise out of the excessive disposal of these packaging materials. Life cycle assessment or LCA will be introduced in this paper as a useful tool to compare the environmental performance of both EPS and CPB throughout their life cycle stages. This paper is divided into two main parts. The first part investigates the environmental impacts of the production of EPS and CPB from 'cradle-to-gate', comparing two inserts-both the original and proposed new designs. In the second part, LCA is applied to investigate various end-of-life cases for
 the same materials. The study will evaluate the environmental impacts of the present waste management practices in Singapore. Several 'what-if' cases are also discussed, including various percentages of landfilling and incineration. The SimaPro LCA Version 5.0 software's Eco-indicator 99 method is used to investigate the following five environmental impact categories: climate change, acidification/eutrophication, ecotoxicity, fossil fuels and respiratory inorganics. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The amount of municipal waste related to food packaging systems, with respect to the whole mass of municipal waste, is ever increasing. For this reason, a selection of different packaging systems has to be made from the start of production not only to favour food conservation, but also to reduce packaging mass and increase the use of recyclables. This paper presents a comparison between impacts associated with alternative packaging systems on the supply of coffee, with the aim of showing how their values change depending on the materials and processes commonly in use. To compare impacts, Life Cycle Assessment methodology was considered. This approach, which is widespread use in many different production sectors, is defined in detail in the ISO 1404x norm. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.LCA (life cycle assessment) is an environmental evaluation tool for a product system based on life cycle thinking. After ISO14040 established in 1997, seven years have passed, and LCA has begun to be use in business. However, it is difficult to evaluate an open-loop recycling system or a system which produces several kinds of products. It seems to be a cause that a conventional LCA is an evaluation tool for a product system with single function unit. In this study, a new LCA method for a system with multi-function units was developed, which was based on matrix LCA method.Automobile industry aims breakaway from oil system fuel vehicle, and develops hybrid, electric, and fuel cell vehicles for reduction of green house gas emissions. This report assessed the energy consumption and CO2 emission for a fuel cell vehicle (FCV) in comparison with compressed natural gas vehicle (CNGV) and gasoline vehicle (GV) by LCA. In FCV, the stage of fuel manufacture accounts for a large part of life cycle, together with that of membrane production. In GV and CNGV, the stage of running accounts for a large part of life cycle. The total CO2 emission of life cycle for FCV is 36 percent smaller than those of GV and CNGV, whereas the total energy, consumption of FCV is 35 percent larger than those of the others.Starting from the results of a life cycle assessment of solar thermal collector for sanitary warm water, an energy balance between the employed energy during the collector life cycle and the energy saved thanks to the collector use has been investigated. A sensitivity analysis for estimating the effects of the chosen methods and data on the outcome of the study was carried out. Uncertainties due to the eco-profile of input materials and the initial assumptions have been analysed. Since the study is concerned with a renewable energy system, attention has been focused on the energy indexes and in particular the "global energy consumption". Following the principles of Kyoto Protocol, the variations of CO2 emissions have also been studied. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd.
 All rights reserved.After ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, Canada's Kyoto greenhouse gas (GHG) emission target is 571 Mt of CO2 equivalent emitted per year by 2010; however, if current emission trends continue, a figure of 809 Mt is projected by 2010 (Cote C. Basic of clean development mechanism-joint implementation and overview of CDM project cycle, 2003 regional workshop on CDM-JI, February 2003, Halifax). This underscores the need for additional reduction of 240 Mt. The Federal Government Action Plan 2000 aims to reduce this gap from 240 to 65 Mt (Cote C. Basic of clean development mechanism-joint implementation and overview of CDM project cycle, 2003 regional workshop on CDM-JI, February 2003, Halifax). In order to accomplish this goal, renewable energy use in all sectors will be required, and this type of energy is particularly applicable in power generation. Traditional power generation is a major source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions after industrial and transportation sectors (Environment Canada. Canada's Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990-1998. Final submission to the UNFCCC Secretariat, 2002 [Available from: http://www.ec.gc.ca/climate/resources_reportes-e.html]. Although wind energy, solar power and other forms of renewable energy are non-GHG emitting in their operation, there are GHG emissions in their different stages of life cycle (i.e. material extraction, manufacturing, construction and transportation, etc.). These emissions must be accounted for in order to assess accurately their capacity to reduce GHG emission and meet Kyoto targets. The current trend in electricity generation is towards integrated energy systems. One such proposed system is the wind-fuel cell integrated system for remote communities. This paper presents a detailed Life Cycle Analysis of the wind-fuel cell integrated system for application in Newfoundland and Labrador. The study confirms that wind-fuel integrated system is a zero emission system while in operation. There are significant emissions of GHGs during the production of the various components (wind turbine, fuel cell and electrolyzer). However, the global warming potential, (GWP) of wind-integrated system is far lower (at least by two orders of magnitude) than the conventional diesel system, presently used in remote communities. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents a study where sustainable development indicators (SDIs) for sludge handling and wastewater treatment systems were constructed in co-operation with a large Swedish water company. Results from a life cycle assessment, a risk assessment. an economic assessment and an uncertainty assessment were used as inputs for ranking technical options of sludge handling by use of multi-criteria analysis (MCA). The MCA included assessment of the different technical options, valuation of different, and often conflicting, aspects of sustainability and weighting of various criteria. On basis of the preferences expressed in the MCA, a number of SDIs and when possible, targets for sustainable development, were formulated. The resulting SDIs reflected economic, environmental, technical and social aspects of sustainable development of sludge handling systems. Where possible, the coverage of the indicators was extended to the entire wastewater system. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Weighting model is the only valuation
 model of life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) profile now. It simplifies evaluation function into linear function, and makes the determination of weighting factor complicated. Therefore the valuation of LCIA profile is the most critical and controversial step in life cycle assessment (LCA). Development on valuation models, which are understood easily and accepted widely, is urgently needed in the field of LCA. The modeling approaches for the linear evaluation function were summed up. The modeling approaches for the nonlinear evaluation function were set up by function approximation theory, which include choosing preference products, forming preference data, establishing artificial neural network(ANN) and training ANN by preference data. By selecting 7 material products as preference product, experience was done with modeling approaches of the nonlinear evaluation function. The results show that the modeling approaches and valuation model of the nonlinear evaluation function are more practical than the weighting model.Based on recently published studies on the life cycle analysis of several chemicals, and the CO2 emissions associated with their production, a new approach to the selective oxidation of light hydrocarbons is discussed. By nature, selective oxidations are also producing CO2 as the end product, much preferred by the thermodynamics. New technologies such as the circulating fluid bed reactor in selective oxidation, could be considered to propose a solution to reduce the CO2 emissions both with respect to the yield improvement, but also as a solution to recover CO2 from a high partial pressure recycling loop. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The life cycle analysis method was used to determine the environmental impacts associated with the production of an electrochromic (EC) glazing (called ECD). This paper describes the inventory analysis for all the basic materials used during the manufacture of the ECD, i.e. K-Glass, tungsten oxide (WO3) poly-methyl methacrylate (PMMA), propylene carbonate (PC), lithium perchlorate (LiClO4) and acetic silicone sealant. K-Glass, PC and PMMA account for the 98% of the total device mass and the CO, emissions during their production processes are 810 g. The total embodied energy was estimated to be 49 MJ/ECD, with 32.1 MJ/unit of them derived from the K-Glass. The comparison of the total embodied energies of the ECD and various insulating glass units concluded that mass-produced EC glazings could easily compete with them in terms of environmental performance, anticipating cost attenuation and overall thermal and optical behavior. The above analysis could be implemented for the reduction of the embodied energy of the ECD life cycle, since it is proposed as an energy saving device. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Fuel cell-based auxiliary power units (APUs) are devices meant to reduce fuel consumption and pollutant emissions when the vehicle engine is used for non-propulsion purposes (space conditioning/heating, refrigeration, lighting, etc.). This paper examines for this new technology the life cycle assessment (LCA) and the comparison with the existing technology, which is commonly idling of diesel engines. Life cycle assessment provides the cumulative impact resulting from all the stages of the product life. Through this analysis it was possible to demonstrate that life cycle 
emissions cannot be neglected in the impact assessment of fuel cell-based auxiliary power units. However, even considering those emissions, the total amount of pollutant that is released is much less than in the case of idling of diesel engines. SOFC-based APUs showed great potential in terms of human health and environmental impacts reduction if compared to the existing technology and the payback period has been estimated in just a little more than two years. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Auxiliary power units (APUs) are devices that can provide all or part of the non-propulsion power of a vehicle. They do not replace the main internal combustion engine, but they complement it offering low consumption, high comfort and low emissions during the idling periods of the vehicle. This work presents an integrated framework to evaluate the trade-offs between cost effectiveness, efficiency and health and environmental impacts of fuel cell power systems considering various stages of the life cycle of the device. The integrated framework has six main components, namely system level modeling, cost modeling, environmental impact assessment, health impact assessment, life cycle assessment and multi-objective optimization. In part I of these two papers, concerning the integrated framework, the first two components are described and applied to a solid oxide fuel cell-based auxiliary power unit. All the results are validated with experimental data or other published models. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Auxiliary power units are devices that can provide all or part of the non-propulsion power for vehicles (space conditioning/heating, refrigeration, lighting, etc.). In the first part of this series of two papers on this topic, an integrated framework to identify and quantify trade-offs between cost effectiveness, efficiency, and environmental and health impacts of fuel cell power systems has been introduced. The present work concludes the description of the framework analyzing the components not discussed in part 1: environmental impact assessment, health impact assessment, life cycle assessment (LCA), and multi-objective optimization. At the end of the paper the results obtained from the simulation of a base case design are presented and discussed. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Eco-design is a frequently applied concept, but mostly as a case study or based on a given product, which has to be improved. Rarely design for environment is used as part of the development of a new product, because environmental assessments usually need a sound data basis, see e.g. common life cycle analysis concepts. Hence, this paper presents an integrated approach, how to deal with environmental issues during product design, when knowledge about the later product is still fairly limited - and the possibility to implement major changes is still given. The approach presented focusses on lean and smart measures, which work without additional extensive data acquisition and scenarios. However, they impose uncertainties, but remain applicable for the designer. This approach is shown for one of the most advanced tasks in electronics: Design of micro systems technology (MST) devices, known also as micro electro mechanical systems (MEMS). Furthermore, overlaps with other disciplines, such as microelectronics design is inevitable.This paper presen
ts a first-order life cycle analysis of different Combined Heat and Power (CUP) concepts in an air-cooled data center. The study finds that the benefits availed by implementing CHP may be small in the short run and depend largely on the size and configuration of the data center infrastructure. However, under certain operating circumstances, both environmental and economic gains can be realized.Two of the major barriers for integrating comprehensive environmental evaluation methods such as the life cycle analysis (LCA) into technology selection in the semiconductor industry are: (1) due to the large amount of data requirement, the time needed for a in-depth LCA does not match with the fast pace of innovation cycle of the industry; (2) with new materials constantly being introduced into testing and production, environmental, safety, and health data of these new material are often lacking. To address these two barriers, it is proposed that analyses should start with simplified models and low-quality data, then based on the uncertainty range of the analysis results, the decision maker will decide on whether to refine the models and collect more data, and which input factors to refine. To enable this., the uncertainty in the results and the contributions of the inputs to this uncertainty need to be quantified. This paper describes the uncertainty analysis and sensitivity methods that can be used for the above purpose. A case study of comparing two chamber cleaning gases is used to illustrate the methods.Results from a joint US EPA and US electronics industry-funded life-cycle assessment of lead and two lead-free alternative solders are presented. Impact scores are reported in 16 different environmental categories for wave soldering applications. Bar solders evaluated include tin-lead, tin-silver-copper, and tin-copper. Tin-lead solder was determined to have higher impact scores than the lead-free solders in four categories, while having lower impacts in five. The use/application stage was the dominant contributor to most impact categories, while upstream and end-of-life processes also made significant contributions to specific impact categories, depending on the solder. Sensitivity analyses of the effect of silver production as well as landfill leachate data are also presented.There is growing international pressure on original equipment manufacturers of electronic products to reduce the environmental impact of their products. Hence a conscious effort is being made by them to evaluate the environmental impact of their products and thus identify aspects leading to the environmental burden. This paper presents a recent research aimed to develop an environmental impact evaluation framework for electronic products based on existing Environmental Assessment (EIA) software systems. A comprehensive evaluation and comparison of select software systems, is presented using relevant case studies of standard computer products. The paper also evaluates a framework for extending the environmental evaluation to the end-of-life scenario of these products.Societal concerns on pollution, hazardous materials, global warming and sustainability provoke responses from society. Public policy or changes in consumer behavior are specific examples. For electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) the released EU directives such as the WEEE (Directive on Waste of Electrica
l and Electronic Equipment) and RoHS (Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in EEE) and future directives such as EuP (Ecodesign of energy-using Products) are already having and will have a significant impact on how products are designed, built, used and treated at their end of life. To bear this challenge, measurable and understandable criteria for assessing and demonstrating the environmental performance of products are needed. Key methodology for a holistic and reliable environmental evaluation of products is Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). This scientifically established approach leads to useful and reliable results regarding environmental evaluation of the entire life cycle of products. From the acquisition of raw materials, over the use of the products to the end of life management all life cycle stages are considered. Product characteristics (such as weight and materials used, energy consumption during use) and all relevant inputs and outputs (such as energy, raw materials, emissions) occurring throughout the entire life cycle are regarded. To improve products from an environmental point of view, ecodesign recommendations for product designers need to be reliable and easy to handle. Environmental performance indicators based on technical product characteristics and based on LCA permits to efficiently ameliorate the environmental profile of a product. Efficiently, since only a fraction of information input is needed, this approach provides a tailored and simplified method using environmental performance indicators. This paper introduces a consistent methodology for the development of environmental performance indicators for information and communication technologies (ICT) products.Since at least three decades tributyltin had been commonly used in paint formulations to protect ship hulls and submersed surfaces from fouling. This has resulted in negative effects to the marine environment due to its high toxicity towards non-target organisms and to its accumulation in sediments, especially near point sources of pollution. Even if a ban of TBT for its application in anti-fouling paints is enforced the problem of TBT-contaminated sediments will remain for the coming years due to the low degradation rates of organotin in sediments. In this work an electrochemical process at a pilot scale to destroy TBT in sediments was investigated. Previous experiences at a laboratory and technical scale have demonstrated the potential of this process to electrolytically degrade organotin species in sediments. This article deals with the optimisation of the pilot plant performance in terms of organotin degradation and operation costs monitoring additionally the effect of the electrochemical treatment on other pollutants such as heavy metals, PCBs, and PAHs. The aim was to investigate by means of a parametric study the range of operating conditions required to destroy TBT down to concentrations lower than 100 mug/kg; to determine the influence of those parameters on the performance of the process; and to evaluate the operation costs associated to the process. It was determined that it was possible to destroy 2 and chloride TBT down to 100 mug/kg at current densities in the range of 4.4 to 6.6 mA/cm(2) concentrations of least of 0.2 mol/L with operation costs of 13 to 18 EUR/m(3).Product development tends to strive towards radical innovations
 of products to gain an advantage in a competitive market. Which tool should be used to evaluate environmental performance in order to reach the market faster with radically improved products? This paper discusses radical and incremental innovation and combines them with tools for evaluating environmental performance of products. The environmental tools examined or used in this paper are design handbook, life cycle assessment (LCA), and environmental effect analysis (EEA). This paper is based on a literature review in the field of innovation and environmental research. Primarily journal articles and conference papers have been used but also books and dissertations. The result of the discussion is that a radical innovation should use EEA as a supporting tool, and incremental innovation should use LCA. This is based on known facts about EEA and LCA. A design handbook can easily be used as a support for both types of innovation.Current intensive pig production is often associated with environmental burdens. However, very few studies deal with the environmental performance of both current and alternative systems of pig production. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the environmental impacts of three contrasting pig production systems using the life cycle assessment method and to identify hot spots for each system. The scenarios compared were conventional good agricultural practice (GAP) according to French production rules, a French quality label scenario called red label (RL) and a French organic scenario called organic agriculture (OA). For each of the three scenarios a "favourable" and an "unfavourable" variant was defined; these variants were used as indicators of uncertainty with respect to key parameters for technical performance and emissions of pollutants. The environmental categories assessed were: eutrophication, climate change, acidification, terrestrial toxicity, energy use, land use and pesticide use. Two functional units (FU) were used to express impacts: 1 kg of pig produced and 1 ha of land surface used. The scenarios were examined with particular emphasis on their contribution to eutrophication and acidification. Given this perspective, the RL scenario can be an interesting alternative to GAP on the condition that its emission of greenhouse gases can be reduced. The results for OA were very dependent on the choice of the FU. Per kg of pig, eutrophication and acidification were similar for OA and GAP, while OA had less eutrophication and acidification than GAP when expressed per ha. For the three scenarios, environmental hot spots and important margins of improvement were identified. Finally, the uncertainty analysis indicated that efforts should be made to produce more reliable estimations of emission factors for NO3, NH3 and N2O in the field. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Under a clean technologies research initiative at the University of New Orleans (UNO), an advanced air quality monitoring, analysis, modeling, and management system has recently been established. This initiative included the design and construction of an Emissions Test Facility along with the necessary instrumentation for source testing, analysis of metals/organics, and particle sizing. The initial objective of this initiative is to assist the maritime industry and then follow up to assist other industry sectors such as power generat
ion, chemical manufacturing, and petroleum refining. Maritime industry has several processes such as blasting, painting, welding, metal cutting, and others which are important with respect to their emission potential of airborne pollutants. Emission factors are not available for all processes and process conditions. USEPA has published emission factors for certain processes but this data has low quality ratings. UNO is currently using the clean technologies center to promote generation of emission factor data and identification of clean technologies (materials, processes, and process conditions) with the help of maritime industry and regulatory agencies. In addition to identifying low emission clean technologies, the UNO research approach emphasizes mathematical modeling for source emission potential and atmospheric dispersion for ambient air quality prediction. Performance parameters such as the productivity, raw material, and natural resources consumption are important in the selection of clean technologies as they influence energy consumption and costs. The continuum approach to air pollution control involves development of decision support systems and tools for life cycle costing, life cycle assessment, and inhalation-induced health risk evaluation. UNO's clean technologies center will assist in designing various production alternatives to achieve high productivity and lower consumption of natural resources as well as emissions, thus minimizing costs and reducing the environmental burden. This paper presents UNO's new research initiative that will result in developing environmentally friendly technologies through optimized process conditions.For several decades now, plastic components have been used more and more in the automotive industry, both for supporting and for aesthetic elements. For such uses, goals like reduction of weight and of production costs, improvement of production plant flexibility, have assumed ail ever increasing importance and have been considered important for companies to define their capability on answering to market requirements and challenges. Also the reduction of environmental impacts related to production, use and disposal of these components, was considered as ail important goal during recent years. With the aim of investigating some alternative production cycles of plastic components, the paper shows the process and the results of comparison between some different ways to develop the molding and plating processes using the Life Cycle Assessment methodology. Such approach is introductory to the following evaluation of a specific component, a car trim, which has not a complex geometry but that was considered useful to initial targets of a comparison involving a plethora of possible different solutions.ATLAST (Aircraft Total Life-Cycle Assessment Software Tool) was developed to support life-cycle logistics impact forecasting for new and aging weapon-system fleets. ATLAST simulates airframe operations, using tail numbers and operation profiles, to predict unscheduled and scheduled removal events according to location and age of components over time. It then administers a capacity-constrained maintenance and logistic support process that returns assets back to serviceable conditions. The latest version of ATLAST consists of a "Deployment & Push Pack Spares" optimization module. The module utilizes a hybrid a
nalytical-simulation optimization approach to rank spare parts by their effectiveness in increasing availability. Decision makers can use ATLAST to determine the optimal level of spares for the deployment of aircraft at a specific location. Detailed mathematical formulation and three numerical examples are presented in this paper.A life cycle assessment of different cropping systems emphasizing corn and soybean production was performed, assuming that biomass from the cropping systems is utilized for producing biofuels (i.e., ethanol and biodiesel). The functional unit is defined as 1 ha of arable land producing biomass for biofuels to compare the environmental performance of the different cropping systems. The external functions are allocated by introducing alternative product systems (the system expansion allocation approach). Nonrenewable energy consumption, global warming impact, acidification and eutrophication are considered as potential environmental impacts and estimated by characterization factors given by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA-TRACI). The benefits of corn stover removal are (1) lower nitrogen related environmental burdens from the soil, (2) higher ethanol production rate per unit arable land, and (3) energy recovery from lignin-rich fermentation residues, while the disadvantages of corn stover removal are a lower accumulation rate of soil organic carbon and higher fuel consumption in harvesting corn stover. Planting winter cover crops can compensate for some disadvantages (i.e., soil organic carbon levels and soil erosion) of removing corn stover. Cover crops also permit more corn stover to be harvested. Thus, utilization of corn stover and winter cover crops can improve the eco-efficiency of the cropping systems. When biomass from the cropping systems is utilized for biofuel production, all the cropping systems studied here offer environmental benefits in terms of nonrenewable energy consumption and global warming impact. Therefore utilizing biomass for biofuels would save nonrenewable energy, and reduce greenhouse gases. However, unless additional measures such as planting cover crops were taken, utilization of biomass for biofuels would also tend to increase acidification and eutrophication, primarily because large nitrogen (and phosphorus)-related environmental burdens are released from the soil during cultivation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology is used in this paper to assess the environmental impacts of residential ventilation units over a 50 year life cycle in Finland. Quantifying the consumption of the energy and material resources during the life cycle permits the estimation of the harmful emissions into the environment (air, water and soil) and the potential changes in the environment (climate change, acidification and ozone production). Two different ventilation units are evaluated, both of which include air-to-air energy exchangers. The research demonstrates that a residential ventilation unit, with a function of providing 501/s of outdoor ventilation air, but not heating the air, has a net positive impact on the environment when it is equipped with a air-to-air energy exchanger with an effectiveness greater than 15%. The greater the effectiveness, the greater the positive impact on the environment. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All righ
ts reserved.Despite its potential to change products and processes widely across industries, microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) are often overlooked by political and popular attention. In this study it is shown how patent information call lie used to analyse the evolution and the present stage of this particular technology. The statistics ire obtained from patent documentation databases available at the Europe in Patent Office, (EPO). We perform a life cycle analysis as well is a patent citation network analysis of the technology. Due to tire interrelatedness and complexity of the MEMS technology the latter performs rather better to map the evolution of the technology.The paper reviews the current state of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) introducing the central elements of the methodology and the latest developments in assessment of the environmental, economic and social impacts along the product chain. The central role of LCA in Integrated Product Policy (IPP) is substantiated describing the different tools of the [PP. An overview is given on Design for Environment (DIFE), presenting central findings from the latest decade of research and reviewing different DFE tools which have been developed. Describing the DFX's of Design for environment, a specific focus is devoted to the tools for design for disassembly. Life Cycle Engineering is defined, and a systematic hierarchy is presented for the different levels at which environmental impacts from industry can be addressed by the engineer in order to improve the eco-efficiency of the industry. The role of industry in meeting the sustainability challenge to our societies is discussed, and it is concluded that industry must include not only the eco-efficiency but also the product's environmental justification and the company ethics in a life cycle perspective in order to become sustainable. In the outlook it is concluded that current drivers seem insufficient to create a strong move of particularly the small and medium-sized enterprises in the direction of sustainability, and a need for stronger legislation and for education and attitude building among future citizens and engineers is identified.Many companies are beginning to change the way they develop products due to increasing awareness of environmentally conscious product development. To copy with these trends, designers are being asked to incorporate environmental criteria into the design process. Recently Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used to support the decision-making for product design and the best alternative can be selected based on its estimated environmental impacts and benefits. Both the lack of detailed information and time for a full LCA for a various range of design concepts need the new approach for the environmental analysis. This paper presents an artificial neural network (ANN) based approximate LCA model of product concepts for product groups using a product classification method. A product classification method is developed to support the specialization of ANN based LCA model for different classes of products. Hierarchical clustering is used to guide a systematic identification of product groups based upon environmental categories using the C4.5 decision tree algorithm. Then, an artificial neural network approach is used to estimate an approximate LCA for classified products with product attributes and environmental impa
ct drivers identified in this paper.High impact publications recently depicted PV technologies as having higher external environmental costs than those of nuclear energy and natural-gas-fueled power plants. These assessments are based on old data and unbalanced assumptions, and they illustrate the need for LCA data describing the continuously improving photovoltaic systems and the inclusion of social benefits in this comparison.Short-rotation woody crops (SRWC) along with other woody biomass feedstocks will play a significant role in a more secure and sustainable energy future for the United States and around the world. In temperate regions, shrub willows are being developed as a SRWC because of their potential for high biomass production in short time periods, ease of vegetative propagation, broad genetic base, and ability to resprout after multiple harvests. Understanding and working with willow's biology is important for the agricultural and economic success of the system. The energy, environmental, and economic performance of willow biomass production and conversion to electricity is evaluated using life cycle modeling methods. The net energy ratio (electricity generated/life cycle fossil fuel consumed) for willow ranges from 10 to 13 for direct firing and gasification processes. Reductions of 70 to 98 percent (compared to U.S. grid generated electricity) in greenhouse gas emissions as well as NOx, SO2, and particulate emissions are achieved. Despite willow's multiple environmental and rural development benefits, its high cost of production has limited deployment. Costs will be lowered by significant improvements in yields and production efficiency and by valuing the system's environmental and rural development benefits. Policies like the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), federal biomass tax credits and renewable portfolio standards will make willow cost competitive in the near term. The avoided air pollution from the substitution of willow for conventional fossil fuel generated electricity has an estimated damage cost of $0.02 to $0.06 kWh(-1). The land intensity of about 4.9 x 10(-5) ha-yr/kWh is greater than other renewable energy sources. This may be considered the most significant limitation of willow, but unlike other biomass crops such as corn it can be cultivated on the millions of hectares of marginal agricultural lands, improving site conditions, soil quality and landscape diversity. A clear advantage of willow biomass compared to other renewables is that it is a stock resource whereas wind and PV are intermittent. With only 6 percent of the current U.S. energy consumption met by renewable sources the accelerated development of willow biomass and other renewable energy sources is critical to address concerns of energy security and environmental impacts associated with fossil fuels.Identification and exploitation of non-conventional water sources is a priority for many industrial sectors, especially for the textile finishing industry. Therefore a multicriteria integrated and coherent methodology to support the implementation of sustainable water reuse is essential. The methodology conceived within the EU project TOWEF0 (TOWards EFfluent zero) is presented in this paper, together with the tools to carry out all the steps required by its application. A process data collection for technical/economical evaluation in textile com
panies was performed and integrated with a characterisation of the process effluents in terms of treatability and reusability. Feasibility evaluations of effluents treatment for reuse were performed and reuse tests in textile processes were carried out. These information allowed for the design of optimised water reuse schemes by Water Pinch application, whereas the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) permitted the evaluation and comparison of water reuse scenarios. Physical-chemical and eco-toxicological monitoring campaigns of textile discharges and receiving water bodies were conducted as well. All these specific results, valuable and applicable independently, when integrated into the TOWEF0 methodology, generate viable solutions in accordance with the fundamentals of the IPPC Directive.To comply with the growing demand for life cycle environmental effect, life cycle assessment (LCA) was carried out for producing A356 aluminum alloy and AZ91D magnesium alloy diecastings. The main emphasis was placed on the improvement assessment for aluminum and magnesium diecasting processes and the comparison between the two competitive processes. The process evaluated was based on yields of finished parts relative to the metal input. This is important both from the environmental point of view and the commercial point of view because the environmental data are sensitive to the design of cast parts and the efficiency of the diecasting operation.LCA was applied to paddy rice fanning with a relatively low livestock production area on a mid-river basin scale in Japan. Conventional farming, standard application of chemical fertilizer and manure, and low chemical fertilizer input and forage production scenarios were tested. The aquatic eutrophication potential and the global warming potential per unit of crude protein production were lower for low chemical fertilizer input and forage production than for conventional fanning, although terrestrial eutrophication was not reduced. These results indicated that reduced input would be effective in areas with contamination of ground and surface water and regulation of nutrient input would be reasonable. Abiotic resource use was also lower for low chemical fertilizer input and forage production than for conventional fanning. Recycling of livestock excreta would be viable in non-intensive livestock production areas.CANMET-MMSL and Penguin Automation Systems Inc have been exploring how process simulation and ventilation modelling software, when combined, can be used to optimise hard-rock/metal mine ventilation systems. In combination, it is anticipated that this methodology will facilitate the exploration of mine design options that affect ventilation requirements and ultimately cost. Such integrated mine design could limit, and possibly reverse, the drivers that under current practices would generally dictate increased ventilation, power consumption, cost and greenhouse gas emissions. It is believed that the mining industry needs such process models to develop better business cases. For example, the implementation of optimised ventilation systems will undoubtedly require significant investment and mines are often reluctant to try such conservational measures unless they can be proven cost-effective. In general, Canadian hard-rock mines know their ventilation systems are providing too much air and consuming power unnecessaril
y. This is because their systems are designed to provide maximum production flexibility, based upon peak demand, which may be at some future time, and operated continuously at that level regardless of actual need. Simplistic analyses have shown electrical energy savings can range from 30 per cent through to 90 per cent (Hardcastle, Gangal and Leung, 1998). These savings depend upon such factors as the intensity and continuity of the production schedule as opposed to non-productive time. Where these savings occur is also important, if limited to either the primary or auxiliary ventilation systems, they could be negligible in a mine's total energy consumption. The problem these mines face is determining what level of ventilation is required in real-time and then the relative benefits. Such parameters as varying electricity costs, heating fuel options, different design criteria and their complex inter-relationship can effect the selection of an optimal system, depending on whether energy, environment or cost is the prime driver. The use of process simulators in underground mining is in its infancy; to date they have been used to show the benefits over the life of a mine under different mining methods, such as a comparison of tele-remote mining from surface against conventional manned operation (Baiden, 2000). This ongoing development advances the use of such simulators into a new and potentially important area, namely modelling the life-cycle ventilation requirements of a mine. This paper shows how such a life-cycle analysis as opposed to peak demand can provide the basis for optimising the design of ventilation systems and their control.Energy conservation has become an issue of global significance, which is a focus reflected in the Australian housing industry's renewed emphasis on energy-efficient design. The Australian Building Codes Board (ABCB) has proposed to increase the stringency of the Building Code of Australia (BCA) to ensure the industry adopts energy efficient measures, including the enhancement of thermal performance and greater recognition of thermal mass in energy rating schemes. However, this proposal's potential to effect energy savings in tropical housing is yet to be assessed. In order to determine its relative merits under tropical conditions, a standardised house design used in the Tiwi Islands of the Northern Territory (NT) was subjected to life cycle analysis, including analysis of embodied energy, the efficiency of energy saving measures and the resulting active energy consumption. This standardised house, like others in the NT, is designed for retrofitting within 10 years, which reduces the time available for savings in operational energy to exceed energy invested in installing these measures. Housing lifespan would, therefore, significantly impact upon potential benefits resulting from changes to the BCA. In addition, the spatial distances between population settlements in the NT greatly increases embodied energy values. It was found that adopting the proposed measures would result in an increase in energy efficiency through a reduction in the need for refrigerative air conditioner use, and that the embodied energy payback period would fall within the lifespan of the house. Therefore, for this specific tropical design, the BCA's proposed measures for saving energy were found to be beneficial.Most Strategic Environ
mental Assessment (SEA) research has been preoccupied with SEA as a procedure and there are relatively few developments and tests of analytical methodologies. This paper applies and tests an analytical framework for an energy sector SEA. In a case study on a policy proposal for waste-to-energy taxation in Sweden, it studies changes in the energy system as a result of implementing the suggested tax by testing three analytical pathways: an LCA pathway, a site-dependent pathway, and a qualitative pathway. In addition, several valuation methods are applied. The assessment indicates that there are some overall environmental benefits to introducing a tax, but that benefits are modest compared to the potential. The methods are discussed in relation to characteristics for effective policy learning and knowledge uptake. The application shows that in many ways they complement each other rather than substitute for each other. The qualitative pathway is useful for raising awareness and getting a comprehensive view of environmental issues, but has limited potential for decision support. The precision increased as we went to LCA and to site-dependent analysis, and a hierarchy emerged in which the qualitative pathway filled rudimentary functions whereas the site-dependent analysis gave more advanced decision support. All methods had limited potential in supporting a choice between alternatives unless data was aggregated through a valuation exercise. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.The examination and comparison of the environmental impacts of the recycling system and the disposing of recyclable materials in the waste disposal system (landfill) were conducted using life cycle assessment (LCA). The stages of classification and characterization in the LCA were analyzed to examine the environmental impact of alternative systems in terms of specific environmental problems such as global warming, acidification, nitrification, and energy use. For each system, the stages of collection and processing of materials were individually studied to make a comparison of the environmental impact results. The LCA methodology is then extended to incorporate a multicriteria evaluation of the environmental impacts defined as the criteria for the recycling of four materials: plastics, glass, metals, and P&CB being designated as the alternatives. The analytic hierarchy process (AHP) multicriteria method uses established procedures to capture the best rank from judgments through weighting. The decision process is the synthesized into a hierarchy by which it is used to compare alternatives, one at a time, in the context of priorities. In this research, the AHP method is used to derive a single environmental score based on the process emissions for each of the recycled materials considered as alternatives for the evaluation. Based on the resulting environmental scores, the materials are ranked with respect to their environmental merits. The results of the life cycle impact assessment for the case study in counties in North Carolina indicate that despite the same transportation distance for either recycling or landfilling of materials in all counties, the impacts from landfilling the recyclable materials produce far greater environmental impact than recycling the materials. This proves that recycling activities are not only beneficial in saving precious land space but a
lso beneficial in terms of protecting the environment. The multicriteria evaluation with the consideration of environmental impacts as the criteria for the evaluation of the four recycled materials resulted in the determination of a single environmental score (SES). The results of the environmental scores indicate that metals (ferrous and non-ferrous combined) are the environmentally preferred choice.This commentary compares the primary energy requirement for apples (cultivar 'Braeburn'), which were either imported or locally-grown in Meckenheim, Germany. Imported apples of the same cultivar were grown in a Southern hemisphere winter in Nelson, Southland, New Zealand, and were picked at the end of March with subsequent 28 d transport by sea for sale in April in Germany. Locally-grown apples (cultivar 'Braeburn') were picked in mid-October and required a primary energy of nearly 6 MJ/kg of fruit including 0.8 MJoule/kg for five months CA storage at 1 degrees C during a Northern hemisphere winter until mid-March. This compared favourably with 7.5 MJoule/kg for overseas shipment from New Zealand, i.e. a ca. 27% greater energy requirement for these imported fruits. Overall, the primary energy requirement of regional produce, stored several months on-site, partially compensated for the larger energy required to import fresh fruit from overseas. This result is in marked contrast to reported overestimates of a reported up to 8-fold energy requirement for domestic versus imported apple juice concentrate [7]. Our own findings of less primary energy required for domestic apple fruit is discussed with respect to providing local employment, fruit orchards preserving the countryside, quality assurance systems for local fruit such as QS and EUREP-GAP, networking and other factors favouring regional production.Background. LCA is the only internationally standardized environmental assessment tool (ISO 14040-43) for product systems, including services and processes. The analysis is done 'from cradle-to-grave', i.e. over the whole life cycle. LCA is essentially a comparative method: different systems fulfilling the same function (serving the same purpose) are compared on the basis of a 'functional unit' - a quantitative measure of this function or purpose. It is often believed that LCA can be used for judging the (relative) sustainability of product systems. This is only partly true, however, since LCA is restricted to the environmental part of the triad 'environment/ecology - economy - social aspects (including intergenerational fairness)' which constitutes sustainability. Standardized assessment tools for the second and the third pillar are stilt lacking, but Life Cycle Costing (LCC) seems to be a promising candidate for the economic part. Social Life Cycle Assessment still has to be developed on the basis of known social indicators. Method and Limitations. LCA is most frequently used for the comparative assessment or optimization analysis of final products. Materials and chemicals are difficult to analyse from cradle-to-grave, since they are used in many, often innumerable product systems, which all would have to be studied in detail to give a complete LCA of a particular material or substance! This complete analysis of a material or chemical is evidently only possible in such cases where one main application exists. But even if one main application doe
s exist, e.g. in the case of surfactants (chemicals) and detergents (final products), the latter may exist in a great abundance of compositions. Therefore, chemicals and materials are better analysed 'from cradle-to-factory gate', leaving the analysis of the final product(s), the use phase and the 'end-of-life' phases to specific, full LCAs. Conclusion. A comparative assessment of production processes is possible; if the chemicals (the same is true for materials) produced by different methods have exactly the same properties. In this case, the downstream phases may be considered as a 'black box' and left out of the assessment. Such truncated LCAs can be used for environmental comparisons, but less so for the (environmental) optimization analysis of a specific chemical: the phases considered as 'black box' and left out may actually be the dominant ones. A sustainability assessment should be performed at the product level and contain the results of LCC and social assessments. Equal and consistent system boundaries will have to be used for these life cycle tools which only together can fulfil the aim of assessing the sustainability of product systems.Society today is faced with many environmental issues, and many decision analytic techniques and methodologies are offered to support their resolution. The literature to date, however, has not explored the appropriateness of the different methods in relation to the different contexts to which they might be applied. As a beginning, we take three categories of environmental decisions as exemplars with regard to contextual issues, such as problem dimensions, social circumstances and cognitive factors. Then, we turn to analytic methodologies and reflect on their suitability for application to the three exemplars. Finally, we will draw more general conclusions to help others in developing appropriate decision analysis and support processes for environmental problems. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A methodology is presented to calculate the optimum operating conditions of a petrochemical plant utility sector, to minimize the overall Life Cycle Environmental Impact. The battery limits of the system studied are extended to include the relevant environmental impacts corresponding to the electricity imported generated in thermoelectric., hydroelectric and nuclear plants. The Overall Environmental Impact is calculated as a weighted sum of the following Potential Environmental Impact categories: Global Wan-ning, Acidification, Eutrophication, Photochemical Oxidation, Ozone Depletion, Human Toxicity and Ecotoxicity. The contribution of each component emission to these environmental categories is evaluated multiplying its flow rate by the corresponding Heijungs factor. A Mixed Integer Non Linear Programming problem is formulated and solved in GAMS. Global Warming is the most relevant contribution. Significant reductions in the Overall Environmental Impact and particularly in Global Warming are achieved selecting the pressure and temperature of high, medium and low pressure headers and the optional drivers that can be electrical motors or steam turbines. Improvements are also reported in the operating cost, natural gas, water and electricity consumption.We assessed the life-cycle of packaging materials designed to protect large-scale integration devices from shock and static electricity when they 
are transported from semiconductor factories to printed-circuit-board factories. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted during production and incineration was reduced by 11% when embossed plastic tape packaging made from non-renewable sources was replaced by material made from bio-based polymer.There have been a growing number of tools and methodologies for management and monitoring of sustainable development. Like the cleaner production, life cycle assessment, eco-design, eco-efficiency, factor 4, factor 10, zero emission, the natural step framework etc. They have been supported by a number of organizations and programs. This variety has led to some confusion regarding to the connotation, differences, linkage and how to apply them systematically. This study intended to elaborate the sustainability management model of ecomaterial by investigating the concepts and linkage between related tools and methodologies.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a world wide established tool for the evaluation of environmental sustainability. Although LCA-methods have been developed and improved, it is still difficult to interpret the results correctly. Just like the holistic consideration of the product system during the inventory analysis, results of the impact assessment have to be analysed from different points of view. Actual studies show that general assertions have to be scrutinized. To understand the correlations of a product's environmental performance every life cycle stage has to be submitted to a careful examination.The present legislation of the European Union as well as the environmental responsibility will increase the number of companies, who want to execute Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) of their product in order to full fill future legislative requirements or to improve the environmental soundness of their products. The current instruments for LCAs are only isolated solutions and not integrated in the product development processes. The integration into the day to day development work can only be realised by using information and data which is already kept in the company. This article describes an approach for an LCA Tool integrated into the SAP E-Business Solutions.We have developed an LCA database based on the latest Input-Output table (IOT) for Japan, which was released in 2004, with three types of modification. First, hybrid analysis was applied to estimate the total environmental loads. The ten main import goods have been evaluated by the process analysis method and added to environmental loads inside Japan calculated based on the Japanese IOT. Second, thirty types of inventory have been estimated. Consideration of various environmental loads makes it possible to evaluate the total environmental impacts comprehensively. Third, several categories in the IOT have been divided so as to estimate emissions intensities of embodied greenhouse gases accurately.Corporations are asked to strategically cope with global environmental changes using LCA or eco-design practices. RoHS, EuP and other EU directives are booming up environmental concerns and facilitating environmental management of green procurement and environmental risk management among Korean companies. We have tried to develop a LCA based management framework enhancing product competitiveness by proactively comply with global regulations and integrating environment into a product strategy. The purp
ose of paper is to introduce the new approach of LCA towards a product and corporate strategy or value creation, which is named as LCA2ValueTM. The Samsung Techwin Co. adopted this initiative in 2004.Recently, resource optimization (energy and material) and environmental issues in life-cycle context are taken very seriously by both the general public and government agencies. Also, some governments have set up official eco-labeling schemes, which are used to inform consumers of Eco (ecology and economic) design products. In the past, several environmental impact analyses and evaluation tools are significantly developed to apply on the Eco design products. However, these Eco design products are not favorable in the marketplace as expected even though they sound more environmental friendly and economical. This may be due to they are focused solely on environmental impact analysis without regarding to the customer need and the cost consideration. As a procedure to incorporate customer needs into product concepts in product planning, Quality Function Deployment (QFD) is a proven methodology to achieve total customer satisfaction. Therefore, a fuzzy theoretic modeling approach to the Eco QFD is developed and illustrated to aid the design team in choosing target levels for engineering characteristics based on the environmental concern in this research. Unlike two valued Boolean logic, fuzzy logic is multi-valued. It deals with degrees of membership and degrees of truth. The Eco design product development problem was formulated as a fuzzy multi-objective model based on the QFD planning. This model not only considers the overall customer satisfaction, but also enterprise satisfaction with the environment committed to the product. With the interactive approach, the best. balance between environmental satisfaction and overall customer satisfaction can be obtained. Finally, a case study illustrating the appliance of the proposed model is also given.The sustainable development of our societies is one of the priorities of the European Commission. Through its new Integrated Product Policy (IPP), the European Commission is developing a series of measures that influence the supply and demand of environmentally soundproducts. Some IPP tools are based on product and process self-declarations, while others require the performance of a Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA). Life-Cycle Inventory (LCI) data availability is the fundamental premise in order to be able to perform an LCA. In this paper we report the work we have done to investigate the diffusion of required LCA data along the supplier chain with the aim of identifying strategies to increase the awareness of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in respect to LCA, to suggest methodologies to facilitate the collection of sound LCI data and to test available low-cost software tools to support LCA, with particular reference to the production phase.This paper presents a life cycle assessment of seven different recycling alternatives for cable plastic waste: "Mechanical recycling in the Vinyloop process", "Chemical recycling in the Stigsnaes process", "Energy recovery in a garbage incineration facility", "Energy recovery in a cement kiln", "Open burning in China", "Granulation and energy recovery in China" and "Cable stripping in China". The functional unit is one ton of cable plastic waste after metal separation. T
he conclusion is that the Chinese alternatives are not preferred from an environmental point of view due to the large energy consumption and emissions output from the transport by ship from Sweden to China. From this the conclusion can be drawn that regardless of the method used in Sweden, or in the near vicinity of Sweden, the recycling of plastics from Sweden in China is less desirable from an environmental point of view. Of the alternative methods, the Vinyloop process is somewhat better for the environment than the Stigsnaes process, but only because the existing Vinyloop plant is located in Italy. The Stigsnaes process is still preferred until a Vinyloop plant is constructed nearer to or in Sweden.This paper presents the approach and first results of the project "EuP-Implementation", which started in January 2005 as a co-operation of the Technical University of Darmstadt and the Hilti Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (hereafter Hilti). The key goal of this project is the integration of ecodesign methods into the general development process based on the prospective investigation of the potential impact of the EuP-Directive on the company. This paper introduces the reader to this far reaching directive and to the project, which acts as a case study for the practical implications of the directive. An analysis of several typical products serving as example helps to determine the state of the art regarding the likely requirements of the directive in order to identify measures necessary to be taken. The analysis is conducted with various simplified LCA methods, namely Cumulated Energy Demand (KEA), Ecoindicator '99 (EI'99) and the Eco-design of EuP methodology (MEEuP). The aim is twofold: 1. the use of various methods provides an insight in the expressiveness of the results (i.e. whether the results of different methods point to the same direction), 2. it is an opportunity to test the methods on applicability, user-friendliness, quality etc. in order to choose the most suitable method for further analyses throughout the project.This paper presents an integrated framework to implement Sustainable Product Development (SPD). The focus is on integrating environmental sustainability in manufacturing firms with control over key product development processes, particularly the early phases, since they are the key players in designing and manufacturing products. From an analysis of the best available developments by researchers and industry, appropriate tools and activities are linked to three implementation levels as enablers for implementing SPD. The proposed approach combines strategic and operational approaches in a single framework. The aim of linking tools and activities to different implementation levels differentiates the proposed framework from other less comprehensive approaches.In practice, enabling technologies, along with digital models and computer-aided/computer-based systems, are still not sufficiently integrated to make life cycle modeling and life cycle assessment methods and technologies suitable tools for designers and engineers. For example, life cycle assessment is becoming more and more an integral tool in today's product design and design evaluation during analysis and optimization. However, approaches and tools that still feature old fashioned paradigms and structures in critical areas such as human-computer interaction and inf
ormation representation are somewhat counter-productive, considering the increase of both the complexity of the problem and the quantities of data to be handled. In this paper we aim at presenting, in a transparent way, the motivations, structure, and consequences of one approach leading to solutions which overcome such obstacles. This approach also supports the application and successful translation into practice of one modern methodology which is central for the cradle-to-grave evaluation used to improve environmentally conscious products and service designs.mThe most advanced ICT companies in Japan have started to apply the eco-efficiency concept as their performance evaluation and/or sales and marketing tools. In this paper, the concept of eco-efficiency applied for ICT is described firstly. Second, an overview of joint activities led by those ICT companies is explained, which is a project to develop eco-efficiency evaluations that can help companies to measure environmental reduction and impact caused by ICT services. Finally, an ICT ecoefficiency guideline that has been developed recently is introduced The guideline is intended to assist companies in explaining their environmental activities connected to ICT introduction strategically. It explains the possibilities in a practical way and looks at simple and effective services that can be used in their environmental management activities and ICT adoption. It describes methodologies and calculation processes based on life cycle analysis (LCA).We constructed a recycling plant for waste home appliances and operated from April 2000. A life cycle assessment (LCA) to compare recycling scenarios was conducted using the data from the operation. The results of the assessment show that it was effective from not only the reduction in the amount of the final disposal but also the point of the reduction in the environmental loads. Last EcoDesign2004, we reported the environmental load reduction effect in 2002. In this report, it evaluates by LCA again based on the data in 2004 that improves the recycling process based on the previous evaluation result, and it reports on the effect of the improvement.Polylactic acid (PLA) is a resin that is synthesized by fermenting the raw plant material (biomass) that has been fixed within living plants such as corn and potatoes by photosynthesis. PLA is biodegradable and does not generate harmful gases during combustion. Also, because it is derived from plants, it can be produced using only small amounts of fossil fuel. PLA, therefore, is a material with a low environmental burden. We developed a PLA-based material for the housings of notebook computers using flameproofing and polymer-alloy technologies. This material has optimal physical properties for use in notebook computer housings. We use this material in the FMV-BIBLO NB notebook computer that went on sale in January 2005. This paper describes the development of this material and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) evaluation.Eco-efficiency is one of the many indicators for measuring damage to the environment. The Eco-efficiency Factor is a quantitative indicator that enables us to evaluate changes in service performance and the environmental burdens that are imposed. This paper presents a case study of two notebook personal computers manufactured eight years apart. To evaluate service value, core hardware speci
fications such as CPU clock speed, memory size, and hard disk drive size were compared. The results show that the more recent notebook has about 24.6 times the service value of the older one. The results of inventory analysis from EcoLeaf, which is a Japanese Type III labeling program based on Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), are used as environmental burdens. Then, we used LIME (Life cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling) to integrate the inventory data of EcoLeaf. The integrated result showed that environmental burdens have dropped about 22%. It is concluded that the Eco-efficiency Factor has increased about 32 times in 8 years. Due to the usefulness of the Eco-Efficiency Factor, it could become an important communication tool between manufactures and green consumers in the near future.This paper aims to propose a methodological framework for quantifying the reduction and increase of health risks associated with urban wastewater systems. A risk assessment model was used to quantify reduction in disease burden while a life cycle assessment approach was used to quantify increasing risks by environmental loading. Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) was used to quantify health risks. This framework was applied to a hypothetical watershed to evaluate health risks by installation of wastewater treatment systems. In this hypothetical case, 55 DALYs per year of health risk would be reduced for 200,000 people in the downstream community by constructing wastewater systems for 200,000 people, while a range from 1.9 to 22 DALYs per year of health risks would generate by materials and energy consumption for construction and operation of wastewater systems. However this result would significantly change, depending on the parameters used in this analysis. The proposed methodology should be improved to get more precise result, but it will suggest the useful information to discuss the overall effects due to installation of various types of urban wastewater systems.Motivated by the prevailing need for a sustainable development and taking the principles of Green Chemistry as a starting point, the present paper describes new and updated findings regarding a sustainable product design for ionic liquids. The focus is on environmental risk. Nevertheless, cytotoxicity testing and first indicative results from a genotoxicity study extend present knowledge also with regard to possible effects on humans. The structural variability of commercially available ionic liquids as well as the abundance of theoretically accessible ionic liquids is illustrated and the consequences for an integrated risk assessment accompanying the development process are discussed. The side chain effect on toxicity for imidazolium type ionic liquids was confounded by more complex biological testing. Also, an influence of an anion on cytotoxicity is shown for the first time. Testing of presumed metabolites of the imidazolium type cations showed a significantly lower biological activity in cytotoxicity studies than their parent compounds. The importance of a purity assessment for ionic liquids is pointed out and a collection of methods that is believed to be adequate is presented. In addition to risk analysis, the use of life cycle analysis for the multi-objective problem of designing ionic liquids is sketched and an eco-design scheme for ionic liquids is proposed. In conc
lusion, the paper illustrates the complex nature of the development processes ionic liquids are currently undergoing and provides guidance on which aspects have to be kept in mind.Integration of IAQ concerns in so-called sustainable designs has suffered from a lack of a comprehensive, science-based assessment methodology for building environmental performance. Guidance and rating systems for "green" buildings fail to address systematically the trade-offs necessary for assessment of the overall performance of a building or its design. This paper presents a framework constructed on the basis of Building Ecology for such an assessment. Using the environmental capacity concept developed and used in the Netherlands in the early 1990s, environmental performance targets can be established. Specific environmental goals including those for indoor air quality can be articulated and targets established for use with life cycle assessment tools. The overall result is an approach to building design and evaluation of completed buildings that can create better indoor environments as well as reduced impacts on the general environment with appropriate and clearly-articulated emphasis on the local context as well as global environmental concerns.Building industry has made significant contribution to economic development of China, but meanwhile it has harmed the environment to a severe extent, which aroused broad recognition. Since building is an interactive integration of building materials and products instead of a simple collection and environmental impacts of buildings are various and long-term, how to assess and quantify in which way the buildings affect the environment becomes a worth concerning topic. In this study, through a perspective of a life-long span, we will analyze the environmental impacts of a building within its every stage, propose some hypothesis and simplification according to Chinese particular conditions, and advance the framework of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) aimed at buildings, especially for residential buildings. By using this framework and relative toolkits developed for research, not only can the environmental impacts of existed buildings be observed, but guidance for architectural designs is provided. Consequently, it contributes to green or ecological design and assessment of buildings. Further more, an LCA case study on residential building fabrics design and construction effecting on the environment energy and resource consumption is introduced.On 24 September 2003, life cycle assessment (LCA) practitioners and decision makers gathered at the InLCA/LCM Conference in Seattle, Washington, USA (see http://www.lcacenter.org/InLCA-LCM03/index.html) to discuss the role of LCA in management, product design, process development, and regulatory/policy development decisions and to compare life cycle-based methods and tools with traditional product evaluation methods and tools. This article is a summary of that meeting and was prepared by the organizers as an overview of the many different technical, regulatory policy, and decision-making policy perspectives presented to an international gathering of participants representing academia and the industrial and regulatory communities.As extended producer responsibility gains ascendancy in sustainable development, proper management of the life cycle of a product is becoming more and more i
mportant. This paper presents a general overview of product life cycle assessment (LCA) and sustainable product packaging over the last four to five years. The review of life cycle assessment includes on overview of LCAs conducted over the last six to seven years for a wide variety of products. The application of the LCA methodology to the formulation of regulatory and public policies, especially in the USA and the Netherlands, and the outcome of the five-year national Japanese LCA initiative, are presented. The key issues and limitations confronting LCA, notably the role of weighting factors, are summarised. Some of these include the unequal treatment of qualitative and quantitative measures and the absence of a semantic ontology to unify the practice. Finally, the merits and shortcomings of a streamlined (abridged) (SLCA) are briefly reviewed. The review of sustainable product packaging is confined to the LCA of packaging systems and new, innovative environmentally-benign packaging materials, for example, biodegradable agricultural (compostable) polymers. The outcome of any packaging LCA should always be interpreted in light of the prevailing technology and the function of the packaging. Also discussed are the life cycle assessment of some packaging systems, new active or intelligent packaging materials, and initiatives across the manufacturing and service industry at dematerialising packaging. The ramifications of the landmark EU Directive on Packaging Waste 94/62/EU and its corresponding regulations in EU member states and some reasons for the varying degrees of success are presented. A more wide-ranging integrated approach, encompassing economic, social and environmental considerations, in conjunction with more efficient packaging designs, which economise on material and are recyclable, is the key to sustainable packaging.Introduction. This paper provides an overview on the content of the ecoinvent database and of selected metholodogical issues applied on the life cycle inventories implemented in the ecoinvent database. Goal, Scope and Background. In the year 2000, several Swiss Federal Offices and research institutes of the ETH domain agreed to a joint effort to harmonise and update life cycle inventory (LCI) data for its use in life cycle assessment (LCA). With the ecoinvent database and its actual data v1.1, a consistent set of more than 2'500 product and service LCIs is now available. Method. Nearly all process datasets are transparently documented on the level of unit process inputs and outputs. Methodological approaches have been applied consistently throughout the entire database content and thus guarantee for a coherent set of LCI data. This is particularly true for market and trade modelling (see, for example, electricity modelling), for the treatment of multioutput and of recycling processes, but also for the recording and reporting of elementary flows. The differentiation of diameter size for particulate matter emissions, for instance, allows for a more comprehensive impact assessment of human health effects. Data quality is quantitatively reported in terms of standard deviations of the amounts of input and output flows. In many cases qualitative indicators are reported additionally on the level of each individual input and output. The information sources used vary from extensive statistical works to individual (point) mea
surements or assumptions derived from process descriptions. However, all datasets passed the same quality control procedure and all information relevant and necessary to judge the suitability of a dataset in a certain context are provided in the database. Data documentation and exchange is based on the EcoSpold data format, which complies with the technical specification ISO/TS 14048. Free access to process information via the Internet helps the user to judge the appropriateness of a dataset. Concluding Remarks. The existence of the ecoinvent database proves that it is possible and feasible to build up a large interlinked system of LCI unit processes. The project work proved to be demanding in terms of co-ordination efforts required and consent identification. One main characteristic of the database is its transparency in reporting to enable individual assessment of data appropriateness and to support the plurality in methodological approaches. Outlook. Further work on the ecoinvent database may comprise work on the database content (new or more detailed datasets covering existing or new economic sectors), LCI (modelling) methodology, the structure and features of the database system (e.g. extension of Monte Carlo simulation to the impact assessment phase) or improvements in ecoinvent data supply and data query. Furthermore, the deepening and building up of international co-operations in LCI data collection and supply is in the focus of future activities.Goal, Scope and Background. The energy systems included in the ecoinvent database v1.1 describe the situation around year 2000 of Swiss and Western European power plants and boilers with the associated energy chains. The addressed nuclear systems concern Light Water Reactors (LWR) with mix of open and closed fuel cycles. The system model 'Natural Gas' describes production, distribution, and combustion of natural gas. Methods. Comprehensive life cycle inventories of the energy systems were established and cumulative results calculated within the ecoinvent framework. Swiss conditions for the nuclear cycle were extrapolated to major nuclear countries. Long-term radon emissions from uranium mill tailings have been estimated with a simplified model. Average natural gas power plants were analysed for different countries considering specific import/export of the gas, with seven production regions separately assessed. Uncertainties have been estimated quantitatively. Results and Discussion. Different radioactive emission species and wastes are produced from different steps of the nuclear cycle. Emissions of greenhouse gases from the nuclear cycle are mostly from the upstream chain, and the total is small and decreasing with increasing share of centrifuge enrichment. The results for natural gas show the importance of transport and low pressure distribution network for the methane emissions, whereas energy is mostly invested for production and long-distance pipeline transportation. Because of significant differences in power plant efficiencies and gas supply, country specific averages differ greatly. Conclusion. The inventory describes average worldwide supply of nuclear fuel and average nuclear reactors in Western Europe. Although the model for nuclear waste management was extrapolated from Swiss conditions, the ranges obtained for cumulative results can represent the average in Europe. Emissions 
per kWh electricity are distributed very differently over the natural gas chain for different species. Modern combined cycle plants show better performance for several burdens like cumulative greenhouse gas emissions compared to average plants. Recommendation and Perspective. Comparison of country-specific LWRs or LWR types on the basis of these results is not recommended. Specific issues on different strategies for the nuclear fuel cycle or location-specific characteristics would require extension of analysis. Results of the gas chain should not be directly applied to areas other than those modelled because emission factors and energy requirements may differ significantly. A future update of inventory data should reconsider production and transport from Russia, as it is a major producer and exporter to Europe. The calculated ranges of uncertainty factors in ecoinvent provide useful information but they are more indications of uncertainties rather than strict 95% intervals, and should therefore be applied carefully.Goal, Scope and Background. This paper describes the modelling of two emerging electricity systems based on renewable energy: photovoltaic (PV) and wind power. The paper shows the approach used in the ecoinvent database for multi-output processes. Methods. Twelve different, grid-connected photovoltaic systems were studied for the situation in Switzerland. They are manufactured as panels or laminates, from mono- or polycrystalline silicon, installed on facades, slanted or flat roofs, and have a 3kWp capacity. The process data include quartz reduction, silicon purification, wafer, panel and laminate production, supporting structure and dismantling. The assumed operational lifetime is 30 years. Country-specific electricity mixes have been considered in the LCI in order to reflect the present situation for individual production stages. The assessment of wind power includes four different wind turbines with power rates between 30 kW and 800 kW operating in Switzerland and two wind turbines assumed representative for European conditions - 800 kW onshore and 2 MW offshore. The inventory takes into account the construction of the plants including the connection to the electric grid and the actual wind conditions at each site in Switzerland. Average European capacity factors have been assumed for the European plants. Eventually necessary backup electricity systems are not included in the analysis. Results and Discussion. The life cycle inventory analysis for photovoltaic power shows that each production stage may be important for specific elementary flows. A life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) shows that there are important environmental impacts not directly related to the energy use (e.g. process emissions of NO, from wafer etching). The assumption for the used supply energy mixes is important for the overall LCIA results of different production stages. The allocation of the inventory for silicon purification to different products is discussed here to illustrate how allocation has been implemented in ecoinvent. Material consumption for the main parts of the wind turbines gives the dominant contributions to the cumulative results for electricity production. The complex installation of offshore turbines, with high requirements of concrete for the foundation and the assumption of a shorter lifetime compared to onshore foundations, compens
ate the advantage of increased offshore wind speeds. Conclusion. The life cycle inventories for photovoltaic power plants are representative for newly constructed plants and for the average photovoltaic, mix in Switzerland in the year 2000. A scenario for a future technology helps to assess the relative influence of technology improvements for some processes in the near future (2005-2010). The differences for environmental burdens of wind power basically depend upon the capacity factor of the plants, the lifetime of the infrastructure, and the rated power. The higher these factors, the more reduced the environmental burdens are. Thus, both systems are quite dependent on meteorological conditions and the materials used for the infrastructure. Recommendation and Perspective. Many production processes for photovoltaic power are still under development. Future updates of the LCI should verify the energy uses and emissions with available data from industrial processes in operation. For the modelling of a specific power plant or power plant mixes outside of Switzerland, one has to consider the annual yield (kWh/kW(p)) and if possible also the size of the plant. Considering the steady growth of the size of wind turbines in Europe, the development of new designs, and the exploitation of offshore location with deeper waters than analysed in this study, the inventory for wind power plants may need to be updated in the future.Goal, Scope and Background. The present paper describes the goal and scope of building material inventories in the ecoinvent database and gives an overview of its content. The ecoinvent database provides generic life cycle inventories for building material production and related processing. They can be used as background data for different LCA applications. Their geographical and temporal scope is Switzerland or Europe and the year 2000. Methods. Data is inventoried as unit processes. Consistency throughout different sources is heeded by systematically estimating missing data. Infrastructure is consequently considered. Different disposal options are modelled. Results and Conclusion. The ecoinvent data provide a harmonised basis for different kinds of building materials. Even though not all datasets could be established on the same quality level, the results generally are believed to be comparable. Since data are generic, they are, however, not suitable to directly compare specific products. Disposal is relevant for the environmental burdens of uses of building materials. Complete life cycles have to be assessed. For this purpose, cumulative energy demand (CED) is not a suitable indicator. Recommendation and Perspective. In future versions of ecoinvent, data quality could be further improved. The database should be extended to include further building materials from secondary materials. To do so, the methodological treatment of secondary materials needs special attention.Goal, Scope and Background. The ecoinvent database provides harmonised generic life cycle inventories for metal production and processing. They can be used as background data for different LCA applications. The goal of this paper is to provide an overview of the metals inventoried in ecoinvent. Beside, some methodological background information is given. The focus lies on a new methodology developed to inventorying joint resources. The implementation is shown in
 a case study of the production of primary copper on a global average. The respective process is assessed with Eco-indicator 99 (H,A) to identify dominant impacts within the production chain. Methods. In ecoinvent, a coupled production is inventoried in multi output unit processes. For database calculation, an allocation by economic revenue is applied. Elementary flows for resources, especially joint resources, include information oil type and quality of the resources. Results and Conclusion. With the presented method, the extraction of resources can be valuated based on the cost of restoration or the change in the future impact due to the extraction of a specific resource. The case study indicates, for copper / molybdenum production, that the mineral extraction is of minor importance compared to the metallurgical step according to the LCIA results. Air emissions of heavy metals are identified as main impacts. Also, the resource depletion shows a notable impact. The environmental impacts of metals from sulphidic ores, however, are underestimated by neglecting emissions from tailings for lack of reliable data. Recommendation and Perspective. Impact assessment methods will have to be updated to account for different grades of ore. The ecoinvent database should be enlarged by more inventories of technically important metals and alloys, e.g. by gold, silver, solders, etc. for the electronics industry and by specific steel and aluminium alloys. Reliable composition data of sulphidic tailings and transfer coefficients for their disposal considering Acidic Rock Drainage (ARD) are to be developed as well.Goal, Scope and Background. This paper gives an overview on how the wood and packaging material production is inventoried in ecoinvent. Packaging materials have been a very important topic in the area of Life Cycle Assessment for more than twenty years. Wood is the most important renewable material and regenerative fuel used worldwide, and an important raw material for paper / board. Several methodological problems arising when inventorying wood for material and energetic uses in a generic database are discussed in more detail. Within the ecoinvent project, the Swiss data base for life cycle inventory data, two reports are dedicated to these two important topics - report No. 9 for wood and report No. 11 for packaging materials. Methods. The whole wood chain has been modeled in a consistent way. This allows one to use this data for LCAs of building materials, bioenergy or paper production. The data represent average technologies used in Central Europe in the year 2000. A revenue-based co-product allocation approach is used for the different outputs. Correction factors are introduced for the consistent modeling of mass-based, material inherent wood properties such as solar energy, carbon uptake and land use. For packaging materials, the datasets represent European average data for the most often used materials as well as specific datasets for the production of actual packaging boxes and containers. Results and Discussion. For wood, revenue-based allocation and the use of the correction factors for mass-related wood properties are shown and explained. For packaging materials, the importance of the raw material wood to the total load is shown. Furthermore trends in the data inventories for board packaging materials over the last two decades are discu
ssed: mainly due to the increased comprehensiveness of the data, higher cumulative emissions can be observed. Conclusion. For wood, the database ecoinvent provides consistent datasets for the entire chain from forestry to intermediate products such as timber, different types of wood-based boards, chips, pellets, etc. For packaging materials, the number of datasets of basic materials has been extended. A modular concept for actual packaging container datasets allows the user an easy modeling of various types of packaging containers/boxes. In the area of paper and board, a comprehensive database for the production of various types of pulp, paper and board is provided, which is representative for the average European production situation. Outlook. Since wood is only limited and representative data for Europe is therefore not included, an update in the near future would be reasonable. Possible further extensions in the future could include various, final wooden products. For the data on paper/board, different levels of quality are observed, requiring a selective up-date of these data. Future extensions could include datasets for the import of pulp from overseas - especially from South America and Canada.Goal, Scope and Background. In contrast to inventory data of energy and transport processes, public inventory data of chemicals are rather scarce. Chemicals are important to consider in LCA, because they are used in the production of many, if not all, products. Moreover, they may cause considerable environmental impacts. For these reasons, it was one goal of the new ecoinvent database to provide LCI data on chemicals. In this paper, the methods and procedures used for establishing LCIs of chemicals in ecoinvent are presented. Methods. Three different approaches are suggested for situations of differing data availability. First, in the case of good data availability, the general quality guidelines of ecoinvent can be followed. Second, a procedure is proposed for the translation of aggregated inventory data (cumulative LCI results) from industry into the ecoinvent format. This approach was used, if adequate unit process data was not available. Third, a procedure is put forward for estimating inventory data using stoichiometric equations from technical literature as a main information source. This latter method was used if no other information was available. The application of each of the three procedures is illustrated with the help of a case study. Results and Conclusion. When sufficient information is available to follow the general guidelines of ecoinvent, the resulting dataset is characterized by a high degree of detail, and it is thus of high quality. For chemicals, however, the application of the standard procedure is possible in only a few cases. When using industrial data, the main drawback is the fact that those data are often available only as aggregated data, thus being out of tune with the quality guidelines of ecoinvent and its main aim, the harmonization of LCI data. As a third approach, the use of the stoichiometric reaction equation is used for the compilation of LCI datasets of chemicals. This approach represents an alternative to neglecting chemicals completely, but it contains a high risk to not consider important aspects of the life cycle of the respective substance. Outlook. Further work in the area of chemicals should focus
 on an improvement of datasets, so far established by either of the two estimation procedures (APME method; estimation based on technical literature) described. Besides the improvement of already established inventories, the compilation of further harmonized inventories of specific types of chemicals (e.g. solvents) or of chemicals for new industrial sectors (e.g. electronics industry) are in discussion.Goal, Scope and Background. Life cycle inventories (LCIs) of agricultural products, infrastructure, inputs and processes are required to optimise food supply chains. In the past, the use of LCA was hindered by the limited availability of databases with LCIs for such agricultural inputs, processes and products in combination with LCIs of other major economic sectors. The ecoinvent database covers this need for the Swiss, and to an extent, the European context. A suitable approach bad to be outlined for defining representative datasets for products from arable crops, since there was no comprehensive survey of agricultural production. Methods. No single data source was available for defining representative datasets for arable crops. It was therefore decided to define model crops on the basis of a variety of sources in collaboration with experts on the crops in question. The datasets were validated by experts and by comparison with literature. Field emissions were calculated using a set of models taking into account situation-specific parameters. Data defined by this procedure are more generally usable, bur their definition is also more laborious. Results and Discussion. Selected results (inventories and impact assessment) are presented for infrastructure (buildings, machinery), work processes, fertilisers, pesticides, seed and arable crop products. Infrastructure has a higher share of environmental impacts than in typical industrial processes, often due to low utilisation rates. Energy use is dominated by mechanisation, the use of mineral fertilisers (particularly nitrogen) and grain drying. Eutrophication is caused mainly by nitrogen compounds. In general, field emissions are of decisive importance for many environmental impacts. Conclusion and Outlook. The ecoinvent database provides representative agricultural data for the Swiss, and to an extent, the European context. It also provides the meta-information necessary for deciding whether a dataset is suitable for the purpose of a particular LCA study. To further improve the representativeness of the datasets, an environmental farm monitoring network is required.Goal, Scope and Background. The disposal phase of a product's life cycle in LCA is often neglected or based on coarse indicators like 'kilogram waste'. The goal of report No. 13 of the ecoinvent project (Doka 2003) is to create detailed Life Cycle Inventories of waste disposal processes. The purpose of this paper is to give an overview of the models behind the waste disposal inventories in ecoinvent, to present exemplary results and to discuss the assessment of long-term emissions. This paper does not present a particular LCA study. Inventories are compiled for many different materials and various disposal technologies. Considered disposal technologies are municipal incineration and different landfill types, including sanitary landfills, hazardous waste incineration, waste deposits in deep salt mines, surface spreading of sludges, mu
nicipal wastewater treatment, and building dismantling. The inventoried technologies are largely based on Swiss plants. Inventories can be used for assessment of the disposal of common, generic waste materials like paper, plastics, packaging etc. Inventories are also used within the ecoinvent database itself to inventory the disposal of specific wastes generated during the production phase. Inventories relate as far as possible to the specific chemical composition of the waste material (waste-specific burdens). Certain expenditures are not related to the waste composition and are inventoried with average values (process-specific burdens). Methods. The disposal models are based on previous work, partly used in earlier versions of ecoinvent/ETH LCI data. Important improvements were the extension of the number of considered chemical elements to 41 throughout all disposal models and new landfill models based on field data. New inventories are compiled for waste deposits in deep salt mines and building material disposal. Along with the ecoinvent data and the reports, also Excel-based software tools were created, which allow ecoinvent members to calculate waste disposal inventories from arbitrary waste compositions. The modelling of long-term emissions from landfills is a crucial part in any waste disposal process. In ecoinvent long-term emissions are defined as emissions occurring 100 years after present. They are reported in separate emission categories. The landfill inventories include long-term emissions with a time horizon of 60'000 years after present. Results and Discussion. As in earlier studies, the landfills prove to be generally relevant disposal processes, as also incineration and wastewater treatment processes produce landfilled wastes. Heavy metals tend to concentrate in landfills and are washed out to a varying degree over time. Long-term emissions usually represent an important burden from landfills. Comparisons between burdens from production of materials and the burdens from their disposal show that disposal has a certain relevance. Conclusion. The disposal phase should by default be included in LCA studies. The use of a material not only necessitates its production, but also requires its disposal. The created inventories and user tools facilitate heeding the disposal phase with a similar level of detail as production processes. The risk of LCA-based decisions shifting burdens from the production or use phase to the disposal phase because of data gaps can therefore be diminished. Recommendation and Perspective. Future improvements should include the modelling of metal ore refining waste (tailings) which is currently neglected in ecoinvent, but is likely to be relevant for metals production. The disposal technologies considered here are those of developed Western countries. Disposal in other parts of the World can differ distinctly, for logistic, climatic and economic reasons. The cross-examination of landfill models to LCIA soil fate models could be advantageous. Currently only chemical elements, like copper, zinc, nitrogen etc. are heeded by the disposal models. A possible extension could be the modelling of the behaviour of chemical compounds, like dioxins or other hydrocarbons.Background, Goal and Scope. The ecoinvent database is a reference work for life cycle inventory data covering the areas of energy, building materials
, metals, chemicals, paper and cardboard, forestry, agriculture, detergents, transport services and waste treatment. Generic inventories are available for freight and passenger transport including air, rail, road, and water transport. The goal of freight transport modelling is to provide background data for transport services, which occur between nearly any two process steps of a product system. This paper presents and discusses the model structure, basic assumptions and results for selected freight transport services. Main Features. Transport services are divided into several datasets referred to as transport components. In addition to vehicle operation (comprising vehicle travel and pre-combusrion), infrastructure processes such as vehicle maintenance, manufacturing and disposal, as well as transport infrastructure construction, operation and disposal, are also modelled. In order to link the various transport components to the functional unit of one tonne kilometre (tkm), so-called demand factors are determined. In the case of transport infrastructure that is not exclusively used by freight transport, allocation is essential. The respective allocation parameters employed for line infrastructure construction/disposal and operation datasets (including land use) are yearly Gross-tonne kilometre performance (Gtkm) and kilometric vehicle/train performance. Results are presented for selected environmental exchanges related to gaseous emissions (climate change gases, nitrogen oxides, and hydrocarbons), heavy metal (zinc and cadmium) emissions to soil and air, as well as BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand), and land use. Particle emissions are further distinguished into fine (PM2.5) and coarse (diameter between 2.5 and 10 mum) particles. The results presented comprise both an intra- and intermodal comparison. Results and Discussions. A comparison of Swiss and European rail transport reveals considerably lower emissions from Swiss rail transport due to the almost exclusive use of hydropower as traction energy. For gaseous emissions, freight transport by water or rail exhibits considerably better performance than road transport (65-92% less gaseous emissions). As far as zinc and cadmium emissions to soil are concerned, water and rail transport produce less than 1% of the emissions resulting from road transport for either pollutant. For zinc and cadmium emissions to air, road transport has the highest emissions; however, the emissions due to water and rail transport range from 2 to 18% of the emission levels arising from road transport. Particle emissions show a more diverse pattern. Whilst fine particle emissions due to water and rail transport are considerably lower than road transport, rail transport with respect to coarse particles performs worse than road transport. Dominance analysis reveals the importance of infrastructure processes. For instance, the NMHC-emissions of infrastructure processes account for 40%, 30% and 50% of emissions for road, rail and barge transport, respectively. For the demand factor of infrastructure operation, a sensitivity analysis of the employed allocation factor was performed, revealing no sensitivity for gaseous emissions and particles. On the other hand, considerable changes in both emission levels and in the ranking of transport modes is observed for land occupation. Finally, we varied selected operation parameters
 for road transport, resulting in considerable reductions of CO2 and NOx emissions of Lip to 60%. In one extreme case (load factor: 100%), NOx emissions for vehicle operation of a lorry are lower than for inland water transport. Only as a result of the considerably higher NOx emissions occutting in infrastructure processes does road transport score worse than water transport, with the ranking remaining the same as for the generic data presented in ecoinvent 2000. Conclusions and Perspectives. The provided datasets allow for a preliminary screening of the importance of transport processes within a product life cycle. In the cases for which transport processes are identified as sensitive for the overall outcome of certain product life cycle or for transport specific comparisons, the modular structure and transparent documentation of demand factors allows for an easy and transparent integration of more case-specific data for selected transport components.Background. The critical review is an important, though not always well understood and correctly applied element of Life Cycle Assessment studies. It is the intention of this paper to analyse the relevant standards and to present personal experiences in conducting critical reviews. Results and Discussion. A peer review for LCA-studies was first proposed in the SETAC guidelines 'A Code of Practice' (1993). The ISO standard 14040 (1997) describes three types of 'Critical review' which are optional in general, but mandatory 'for LCA studies used to make a comparative assertion that is disclosed to the public'. For this purpose, the most comprehensive form according to section 7.3.3, the panel method, has to be ('shall' in ISO terminology) be used. From personal experience, this method is found to be the most frequently performed in practice (60%), the average panel size being three experts. Large panels with more than 4 experts are rare. Recommendation. Personal experience leads to supporting the recommendation by SETAC of the accompanying or 'interactive' critical review, which should be preferred, over the review,a posteriori', which offers considerable risks in regards to the duration and costs of an LCA study. ISO 14040, on the other hand, does not recommend one or the other way of performing the critical review.Goal, Scope and Background. To strengthen the evaluative power of LCA, life cycle interpretation should be further developed. A previous contribution '(Heijungs & Kleijn 2001) elaborated five examples of concrete methods within the subset of numerical approaches towards interpretation. These methods were: contribution analysis, perturbation analysis, uncertainty analysis, comparative analysis, and discernibility analysis. Developments in software have enabled the possibility to apply the five example methods to explore the much-used ecoinvent '96 database. Discussion of Methods. The numerical approaches implemented in this study include contribution analysis, perturbation analysis, uncertainty analysis, comparative analysis, discernibility analysis and the newly developed key issue analysis. The data used comes from a very large process database: ecoinvent '96, containing 1163 processes, 1181 economic flows and 571 environmental flows. Conclusions. Results are twofold: they serve as a benchmark to the usefulness and feasibility of these numerical approaches, and they shed light on t
he question of stability and structure in an often-used large system of interconnected processes. Most of the approaches perform quite well: computation time on a moderate PC is between a few seconds and a few minutes. Only Monte Carlo analyses may require much longer, but even then it appears that most questions can be answered within a few hours. Moreover, analytical expressions for error propagation are much faster than Monte Carlo analyses, while providing almost identical results. Despite the fact that many processes are connected to each other, leading to the possibility of a very unstable system and very sensitive coefficients, the overall results show that most results are not extremely uncertain. There are, however, some exceptions to this positive message.Goal, Scope and Background. Whilst initially designed for industrial production systems, environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) has recently been increasingly applied to agriculture and forestry projects. Several authors suggested that the standard LCA methodology needs to be refined to cover the particularities of agri- and silvicultural production systems. Until now, water quantity received little attention in these methodological revisions, notwithstanding the well-known impact of agriculture and forestry on issues like water availability, drought and flood risk. This paper proposes an add-on to existing LCA methods in the form of an indicator set that integrates water quantity impacts of agri- and silvicultural production. Method. First, system boundaries are discussed in order to identify the water flows between the production system and the environment. These flows are attributed to impact categories, linked to environmental burdens and to the areas of protection. Appropriate indicators are selected for each potential burden. Results and Discussion. At the present, two input related impact categories deal with water quantity: Abiotic resource depletion and land use. The list of output related impact categories presented by Udo de Haes et al. (1999) does not include water quantity impacts like flood and drought risk. A new impact category 'regional water balance' is introduced to cover these risks. Exceedance probabilities are used as indicators for these temporal variations in streamflow. Conclusion and Outlook. The method presented in this paper can bring a life cycle assessment closer to real world concerns. The main drawback, however, is the increasing data requirement that might hinder the feasibility of the method. Future research should focus on this problem; for instance by applying a relatively simple numerical model that can calculate the indicator scores from more easily accessible data.Background. The Swiss chemical industry produces large amounts of organic waste solvents. Some of these solvents cannot be recovered. A common option for the treatment of such organic waste solvents is the incineration in hazardous waste incinerators. Alternatively, the waste solvents can be used as fuel in cement production. On the one hand, solvent incineration in cement kilns saves fossil fuels such as coal and heavy fuel oil. On the other hand, fuel-bound emissions may change as well. These emission changes can either have a negative or a positive net ecological impact, depending on the chemical nature of the waste solvent used. Goal and Scope. The aim of our work was to d
evelop a multi-input allocation model, which allows one to calculate life cycle inventories for specific waste solvents. These LCIs can then be used in further applications, e.g. a comparison of different waste solvent treatment options. Results and Discussion. A multi-input allocation model was developed that takes into account the physico-chemical properties of waste solvents such as elementary composition and net calorific value. The model is based on a set of equations and data on fuel mix, fuel composition as well as transfer coefficients for heavy metals. The model calculates 'avoided inputs' and 'changes in emissions' which arise from substituting fossil fuels with waste solvents. Life cycle inventories can be calculated for specific waste solvents if the elementary composition and the net calorific value are known. The application of the model is illustrated in a case study on four waste solvents. The results show that solvent incineration in cement kilns generally reduces the overall impact of clinker production because fossil fuels are replaced. A sensitivity analysis revealed that the model is especially sensitive to the fuel mix and coal properties, such as net calorific value as well as the content of nitrogen and carbon. The transfer coefficients are also uncertain, but this uncertainty is not relevant as the amount of heavy metal emitted into the atmosphere is small. Conclusions and Outlook. The proposed model serves to calculate inventory data for the combustion of liquid alternative fuels such as waste solvents in cement kilns. Although our model represents Swiss cement production conditions, it can be applied to other countries by fitting the most sensitive parameters of fuel mix and coal properties. In case the technology used is very different to the Swiss situation, the transfer coefficients also need to be adapted.Goal, Scope and Background. Due to the limited spatial possibilities for the extraction of coarse sand available from land sources, and the abundant availability of finer sands in land and marine sources, the Dutch government aims to allow for the use of finer sand used in the Netherlands. The application of finer sand in concrete requires adaptations in the concrete composition (additional cement, additional superplasticiser, or other aggregates) to maintain workability. In order to examine if these adaptations result in shifts from (the expected) land use effects to other environmental effects, an LCA of finer sand in concrete was carried out. Methods. Besides the common CML-method, an experimental characterisation method for land use, was applied. Results and Discussion, Conclusion. The results show that the application of finer sand indeed results in lower land use effects. Compositions with additional cement and other aggregates result in somewhat higher scores on the usual CML impact categories. Compositions with extra superplasticiser result in roughly similar environmental effects as the current compositions. Recommendation and Perspective. The conclusions were used to formulate recommendations for the national policy on fine sand in concrete. Due to a change in priorities, it is not sure if and which organisation will use the conclusions.Goal and Background. The LCA methodology is used to compare the potential environmental benefits of an emerging biotechnology, enzyme-bleaching, with those of elem
ental chlorine free (ECF) bleaching, an existing technology that is widely used in paper making. Through the use of biodegradable enzymes to supplement, or eventually to replace, chemicals in the bleaching process to extract lignin, enzyme bleaching processes are aimed to reduce the use of chlorine based bleaching chemicals and to achieve cost savings by circumventing investment into oxygen delignification or ozone bleaching technology. Scope and Method. The assessment is conducted using SimaPro 4.0 and focuses on the processes within the bleach plant stage. For this study, ECF is replaced by enzyme bleaching only in the first stage of the bleaching process. Because this is a comparative study, all upstream and downstream processes are excluded. The impact categories based on Eco-indicator 95 are used to characterize the inventory data in this study. Other methodologies, such as Eco-indicator 99 and CML 2000, have not been chosen as they are more region-specific and are not yet fully applicable to the Canadian environmental condition. A new initiative to develop a Canadian Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) Method is ongoing at the Interuniversity Reference Center for the Life Cycle Assessment, Interpretation and Management of Products, Processes and Services (CIRAIG), Ecole Polytechnique, Canada. Results and Conclusion. The analysis shows that the introduction of enzyme bleaching into the ECF process significantly improves the overall environmental performance in the majority of the impact categories. Extending the substitution of enzyme bleaching for chlorine dioxide is warranted. Of the three impact categories where increased impact was noted, two of these which increased emissions of greenhouse gases and increased incidence of summer smog, would be completely eliminated if the enzyme mediator was manufactured at the point of use. There remains a potential for increased impact from eutrophication, which would need to be managed. Recommendations and Outlook. With the only partial substitution of ECF by enzyme bleaching examined here, chlorine dioxide consumption, energy consumption, NaOH consumption, and transportation remain the key hot spots and warrant further research. Anything that can be done to replace or reduce chlorine dioxide consumption will benefit the environment.Goal, Scope and Method. The purpose of this environmental system analysis was to investigate the impact of feed choice in three pig production scenarios using substance flow models complemented by life cycle assessment methodology. The function of the system studied was to grow piglets of 29 kg to finished pigs of 115 kg. Three alternative scenarios of protein supply were designed, one based on imported soybean meal (scenario SOY); one based on locally grown peas and rapeseed cake (scenario PEA) and one based on Swedish peas and rapeseed meal complemented by synthetic amino acids (scenario SAA). The environmental impact of both feed production as such and the subsequent environmental impact of the feed in the pig production sub-system were analysed. The analysed feed ingredients were barley, wheat, peas, rapeseed meal, rapeseed cake, soybean meal and synthetic amino acids. The crude protein level of the feed affected the nitrogen content in the manure, which in turn affected nitrogen emissions throughout the system and the fertilising value of the manure, ultimate
ly affecting the need for mineral fertiliser application for feed production. Results and Discussion. The results showed that feed production contributed more than animal husbandry to the environmental burden of the system for the impact categories energy use, global warming potential and eutrophication, whereas the opposite situation was the case for acidification. The environmental impacts of scenarios SOY, PEA and SAA were 6.8, 5.3 and 6.3 MJ/kg pig growth; 1.5, 1.3 and 1.4 kg CO2-eq/kg pig growth; 0.55, 0.55 and 0.45 kg O-2-eq/kg pig growth; and 24, 25 and 20 g SO2-eq/kg pig growth, respectively. The results suggested that scenario SAA was environmentally preferable, and that the reason for this was a low crude protein level of the feed and exclusion of soybean meal from the feed. Conclusions. Feed choice had an impact on the environmental performance of pig meat production, not only via the features of the feed as fed to the pigs, such as the crude protein content, but also via the raw materials used, since the environmental impact from the production of these differs and since feed production had a large impact on the system as a whole.Goal, Scope and Background. Country-dependent characterisation factors for acidification have been derived for use in life cycle assessments to describe the effect on ecosystem protection of a change in national emissions. They have recently also been used in support of European air pollution abatement policies and related cost benefit analyses. We demonstrate that the characterisation factors as calculated to date are unstable due to being derived from the non-smooth and highly varying part of the underlying emission-impact functions. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the currently available characterisation factors and to propose a modification that makes use of the full range of the underlying functions. Method. The characterisation factors derived in this paper are based on updates of data used to support European air pollution agreements under the UNECE Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution (LRTAP) and the European Commission. The focus in this paper is on the analysis of characterisation factors for acidification. The analysis of characterisation factors for terrestrial eutrophication from nitrogen compounds is a simple extension of the methods described here. The analysis is conducted for 25 European nations, i.e. for 23 EU countries plus Norway and Switzerland; Cyprus and Malta are excluded due to lack of data on critical loads. Results and Conclusions. We show that a linear model which is calibrated to emission changes of -50% is generally more reliable than characterisation factors which are based on emission changes of plus or minus 10%. Application of these characterisation factors are justified for emission reductions up to 30% in total European emissions, compared to 2000. This is within the range of currently agreed upon emission reductions in 2010 relative to 2000. Therefore, characterisation factors can be used in LCA as well as for the support of the revision of existing European air pollution agreements.Goal, Scope, and Background. Uncertainty analysis in LCA is important for sound decision support. Nevertheless, the actual influence of uncertainty on decision making in specific LCA case-studies has only been little studied so far. Therefore, we assessed the unc
ertainty in an LCA comparing two plant-protection products. Methods. Uncertainty and variability in LCI flows and characterization factors (CML-baseline method) were expressed as generic uncertainty factors and subsequently propagated into impact scores using Monte-Carlo simulation. Uncertainty in assumptions on production efficiency for chemicals, which is of specific interest for the case study, was depicted by scenarios. Results and Discussion. Impact scores concerning acidification, eutrophication, and global warming display relatively small dispersions. Differences in median impact scores of a factor of 1.6 were sufficient in the case study for a significant distinction of the products. Results of toxicity impact-categories show large dispersions due to uncertainty in characterization factors and in the composition of sum parameters. Therefore, none of the two products was found to be significantly environmentally preferable to the other. Considering the case study results and inherent characteristics of the impact categories, a tentative rule of thumb is put forward that quantifies differences in impact scores necessary to obtain significant results in product comparisons. Conclusion. Published LCA case-studies may have overestimated the significance of results. It is therefore advisable to routinely carry out quantitative uncertainty analyses in LCA. If this is not feasible, for example due to time restrictions, the rule of thumb proposed here may be helpful to evaluate the significance of results for the impact categories of global warming, acidification, eutrophication, and photooxidant creation.Goal, Scope and Background. Incorporation of exposure and risk concepts into life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) is often impaired by the number of sources and the complexity of site-specific impact assessment, especially when input-output (I-O) analysis is used to evaluate upstream processes. This makes it difficult to interpret LCIA outputs, especially in policy contexts. In this study, we develop an LCIA tool which takes into account the geographical variability in both emissions and exposure, and which can be applied to all economic sectors in I-O analysis. Our method relies on screening-level risk calculations and methods to estimate population exposure per unit of emissions from specific geographic locations. Methods. We propose a simplified impact assessment approach using the concept of intake fraction, which is the fraction of a pollutant or its precursor emitted that is eventually inhaled or ingested by the population. Instead of running a complex site-specific exposure analysis, intake fractions allow for the accounting of the regional variability in exposure due to meteorological factors and population density without much computational burden. We calculate sector-specific intake fractions using previously-derived regression models and apply these values to the supply chain emissions to screen for the sectors whose emissions largely contribute to the total exposures. Thus, the analytical steps are simplified by relying on these screening-level risk calculations. We estimate population exposure per unit emissions from specific geographic locations only for the facilities and pollutants that pass an initial screening analysis. We test our analytical approach with reference to the case of increasing insulation for new single-fami
ly homes in the US. We quantify the public health costs from increasing insulation manufacturing and compare them with the benefits from energy savings, focusing on mortality and morbidity associated with exposure to primary and secondary fine particles (PM(2.5)) as well as cancer risk associated with exposure to toxic air pollutants. We estimate health impacts using concentration-response functions from the published literature and compare the costs and benefits of the program by assigning monetary values to the health risks. In the second part of this paper, we present the results of our case study and consider the implications for incorporating exposure and risk concepts into I-O LCA. Conclusions. We have presented a methodology to incorporate regional variability in emissions and exposure, into input-output LCA, using reduced-form information about the relationship between emissions and population exposure, along with standard input-output analysis and risk assessment methods. The location-weighted intake fractions can overcome the difficulty in incorporation of regional exposure in LCIA.Goal and Scope. This study attempts to estimate the environmental performance of Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA), from agricultural production through the PHA fermentation and recovery process - 'cradle to gate'. Two types of PHA production systems are investigated: corn grain based PHA and corn grain and corn stover based PHA. Methods. Corn cultivation data are taken from 14 counties in the Corn Belt states of the United States - Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin. The environmental burdens associated with the corn wet milling process, in which dextrose, corn oil, corn gluten meal and corn gluten feed are produced, are allocated to dextrose and its coproducts by the system expansion approach. Greenhouse gases include carbon taken up by soil, nitrous oxide (N2O) released from soil during corn cultivation, carbon contents in biobased products as well as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide released from industrial processing. The soil carbon and nitrogen dynamics in corn cultivation are predicted by an agro-ecosystem model, the DAYCENT model. The environmental performance of the PHA production system is compared to that of a conventional polymer fulfilling an equivalent function. The environmental performance is addressed as nonrenewable energy and selected potential environmental impacts including global warming, photochemical smog, acidification, and eutrophication. The characterization factors are adapted from the TRACI model (Tools for the Reduction and Assessment of Chemical and Other Environmental Impacts) developed by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Results and Discussion. Global warming associated with corn grain based PHA is 1.6-4.1 kg-CO2 eq. kg(-1). The primary contributing process to most environmental impacts except for photochemical smog and eutrophication is the PHA fermentation and recovery process. For photochemical smog and eutrophication, the primary contributing process is corn cultivation due to nitrogen related burdens from soil. The trend of PHA fermentation development shows that the PHA fermentation technology is still immature and continues to improve, thereby also decreasing the environmental impacts. PHA produced in an integrated system, in which corn stover is harvested and
 used as raw material for PHA along with corn grain, offers global warming credits (negative greenhouse gas emissions), ranging from -0.28 to -1.9 kg-CO2 eq. kg(-1), depending on the PHA fermentation technologies employed and significantly reduces the environmental impacts compared to corn based PHA. The significant reductions from the integrated system are due to 1) less environmental impacts in corn cultivation and wet milling, and 2) exporting surplus energy from lignin-rich residues in corn stover process. Conclusions and Outlook. Under the current PHA fermentation technology, corn grain based PHA does not provide an environmental advantage over polystyrene. Corn grain based PHA produced by the near future PHA fermentation technology would be more favorable than polystyrene in terms of nonrenewable energy and global warming due to improvement in the PHA fermentation and recovery process. However, corn grain based PHA produced in even the near future technology does not provide better profiles for other environmental impacts (i.e., photochemical smog, acidification and eutrophication) than polystyrene. One of the primary reasons for high impacts of PHA in photochemical smog, acidification and eutrophication is the environmental burdens associated with corn cultivation. Thus other approaches to reduce these burdens in the agricultural process (e.g., use of buffer strips, etc.) are necessary to achieve better profiles for photochemical smog, acidification and eutrophication associated with corn cultivation. PHA produced in the integrated system is more favorable than polystyrene in terms of most environmental impacts considered here except for eutrophication.Aim, Scope and Background. Metal die casting is a highly energy-intensive industry. In addition to that, the production of primary zinc by smelting consumes huge amounts of energy as well as generates many types of pollution. This paper uses LCA to investigate the environmental performance of a zinc cast product. The areas of environmental concern are focused on the direct and indirect air emissions that arise from the Zinc Smelting, Casting and Recycling, as well as transportation. Main Features. The LCA case study employs a cradle-to-gate approach, which starts with the purchasing of primary zinc from abroad, casting, inspection, and ends when the scrap metal is sent back for recycling by truck. Based on a 'generic' zinc casting product, the objective of the LCA was to compare the air emissions from the material cycle due to: i) the increased content of recycled metal in the final cast product; and ii) the choice of selecting between two Remelters (A and B), the first located near the company and the other in a neighbouring country, to send zinc scrap for recycling. The LCA SimaPro software (version 5.0) Eco-indicator '99 method is used to perform an impact assessment for Climate Change, Acidification, Ecotoxicity, Respiratory Inorganics, and Respiratory Organics was performed. Results. The results from direct (process) and indirect (power plants) air emissions confirmed that the major air pollution occurs during Zinc Smelting, that is up to approximately 65-70%. Although an increase in recycling rates resulted in higher levels of air pollution from transportation as well as heavy metals from dross, these two issues were insignificant compared to the huge amount of energy consumed 
for primary metal production. Based on air pollution from transportation alone, a significant reduction of greenhouse gases and VOCs of 90% each was appreciated when Remelter A was selected. Conclusion. The results verified that efforts to recycle zinc and consume the material in a more sustainable manner have become highly important. Also, a second LCA investigation that was made to compare zinc cast products that consists of: 100% primary zinc, mixtures of 50-50% and 40-60% primary-to-recycled zinc, and finally 100% recycled zinc; further emphasized the need for using recycled metal, as opposed to using primary metal.Goal, Scope and Background. Obviously, people assume that the regional production and distribution of food requires less energy turnover, compared with global transports of food. Politicians claim the term 'regionaliry', maintaining that regionaliry is a medicine against wasting so much energy for the global food distribution. Additionally the energy turnover is causing pollution. But remarkably, there is a lack of empirical data to support this idea. At the same time, nobody really requires regional origin for non-food items, e.g. for bicycles, dishwashers, furniture or cars etc. The public mainstream asks for regional origin merely for food. Hence, the first scientific issue worked out in this paper is how the energy turnover of comparable food items can be measured, regarding the lifecycle of food in total. That means to investigate the partial systems of crop or breed, of food production, of packaging including transport and distribution up to the point of sale. Secondly, it has to be checked, if the assumed coincidence of low energy turnover and regional origin can be verified. The specific energy turnover, calculated in the unit [kWh per kg] or [kWh per 1] of food, is investigated by comparing regional with global process chains for different food items. Two examples of food - fruit juices and lamb meat - are researched, by personal investigation worldwide. Firstly, fruit juices of high grade quality from Brazil, from European origin and from local German farmers are compared, in terms of energy. Secondly, a comparison of lamb meat from New Zealand and lamb meat from local German farmers is conducted. Lamb meat has been investigated, because it is shipped around the world as frozen natural food, not concentrated like juices. In addition, the business size of the food producers is researched for both examples. Methods. As a part of LCA the energy turnover of each process step from the very beginning up to the point of sale is investigated., These primary results are the basic empirical data, in order to allocate the energy turnover at the food items as functional units. The results of regional, European-continental and of global process chains are compared. In addition, the issue is investigated, whether the specific energy turnover depends upon the business size. Results and Discussion. Surprisingly, the data in both cases demonstrate a strong degressive relation of the specific energy turnover and the business size. Here it is not important, if the business is regional or not. Merely the efficiency and logistics of the production and the operations determine the specific energy turnover. These findings seem closely connected with the business size, because small companies are not able to invest in energy recovering a
nd saving technology. The regional juices business is worsened by the huge number of small-sized transports of the crop and the nearly bottle-wise distribution. Regarding lamb meat we once more find the disadvantages of comparably small farms again. In addition, the German farmers need daily shepherds, fences by night, stables and usually additional feed during the wintertime. All these efforts are not necessary in New Zealand, where the climatic conditions and the open countryside with low population allow rather easy and low energy breeding of lamb. Conclusion. The coincidence of economic and ecological facts is obvious. As a matter of fact, in economics there is a strong degressive relation between the production costs and the number of produced items. This relation is very well known as 'Economy of Scale.' Our findings lead to similar conclusions, in terms of ecology. That means, the production ecology depends on the number of produced items. Additionally, our results demonstrate a minimum business size, so that we can claim an 'Ecology of Scale' as well. However, on the other hand, the reported data and the conclusions are valid for the investigated food items - fruit juices and lamb meat - only. Nevertheless, one conclusion is already evident: The most popular claims for regional food production and distribution instead of global process chains are not generally valid. Small farmers basically need much more energy to produce and distribute their products, compared with bigger units. Both food items demonstrate clearly, that the ecological quality is mainly influenced by the operational efficiency and not by the marketing distance itself. Recommendation and Outlook. Much more detailed data of all the investigated operational units, processing fruit juices and lamb meat, have been published (Fleissner 2001). As a further example, we investigate wine from different countries as a further example. Different from fruit juices, which can be shipped as a concentrate, and different from lamb meat, which is shipped as frozen food, wine of high grade quality is always bottled close to the place of origin. That means, that not only the food, but also the heavy weight packaging is transported around the world. So, we are very curious about the results, which we expect for 2004.Four model technologies of coal preparation have been characterised with the aim to evaluate the effects of coal preparation on the natural environment. Using the LCA method (in accordance with the PN EN 14040 standard) the charge of the natural environment has been calculated for each of the cleaning models, taking into account principal categories of the effects, that is human health, quality of the ecosystem and natural resources. With the aim to calculate the eco-indexes, the so-called process tree has been developed for the analysed technologies, as well as the inventory tables that collect necessary data to make the computations possible. As a functional technological unit in the analyses performed, an amount of 1000 Mg of cleaned coal has been assumed. An analysis of the values of calculated eco-indexes has shown that the highest charge of the environment, as a consequence of coal preparation, takes place in the "mineral resources" category, while the lowest one results in using the technology marked M1.We present the thermal and optical evaluation of a 40 cm x 40 
cm electrochromic window prototype mounted on an Insulating Glass Unit (double glazed window with a low emittance coating). The favorable optical performance of the electrochromic part combined with the excellent thermal protection of the advanced Insulating Glass Unit provides a product suitable for energy efficient applications. The environmental evaluation of the prototype was assessed by implementing the Life Cycle Assessment methodology. Energy savings up to 5608 MJ per unit can be achieved when the electrochromic device is used in cooling dominated areas and buildings with large facades. This corresponds to cooling and heating savings of 127.1 kWh/m(2) glass per year and 94.3 MJ/m(2) glass per year respectively. The reduction in building energy needs reaches 55.7% and the energy pay back time is only 0.8 years since the embodied energy represents only 3.3% of the energy saved during its life cycle. The net greenhouse gas emissions reduction is estimated to be 630 kg CO2 equivalent, while only 0.5 years of operation are required to compensate the lifecycle emissions. Net human toxic emissions reduction can reach 358 kg 1,4-DCB equivalent, compensating its life cycle toxic emissions already from 0.25 years of operation.The most fundamental aspect in the ISO 14001 standard Environmental management systems - Specification with guidance for use is to find out ways by which an organisation influences environment to a significant degree. This paper examines environmental data from companies manufacturing products mainly from metals and/or polymers. The data were collected in a uniform way by use of special guidelines. Weighting or valuation methods often used in life cycle assessments were used to quantitatively compare and rank environmental aspects. The study results suggest that, in general, the largest environmental impact in the investigated manufacturing sub-sector can be associated with product use and/or disposal phases. This in turn shows a need for more attention on environmental work on the design for environment than what the ISO 14001 standard requires. It is further suggested that weighting or valuation methods can aid in determining the significance of environmental impacts and aspects in the context of ISO 14001. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The overall goal of the present study is to evaluate different strategies for treatment of solid waste in Sweden based on a life cycle perspective. Important goals are to identify advantages and disadvantages of different methods for treatment of solid waste, and to identify critical factors in the systems, including the background systems, which may significantly influence the results. Included in the study are landfilling, incineration, recycling, digestion and composting. The waste fractions considered are the combustible and recyclable or compostable fractions of municipal solid waste. The methodology used is life cycle assessment (LCA). The results can be used for policy decisions as well as strategic decisions on waste management systems. A waste hierarchy suggesting the environmental preference of recycling over incineration over landfilling is often put forward and used in waste policy making. LCAs can be used to test the waste hierarchy and identify situations where the hierarchy is not valid. Our results indicate that the waste hierarchy is valid as a rule of thu
mb. The results also suggest that a policy promoting recycling of paper and plastic materials, preferably combined with policies promoting the use of plastics replacing plastics made from virgin materials, leads to decreased use of total energy and emissions of gases contributing to global warming. If the waste can replace oil or coal as energy sources, and neither biofuels nor natural gas are alternatives, a policy promoting incineration of paper materials may be successful in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In the present paper, the validity of the waste hierarchy for treatment of solid waste is tested. This is done by using the tool life cycle assessment on recycling, incineration with heat recovery and landfilling of recyclable waste for Swedish conditions. A waste hierarchy suggesting the environmental preference of recycling over incineration over landfilling is found to be valid as a rule of thumb. There are however assumptions and value choices that can be made that make landfilling more preferable. This is the case for some waste fractions and for some of the environmental impacts studied when only a limited time period is considered. When transportation of waste by passenger car from the households is assumed for the other treatment options but not for landfilling, landfilling also gains in preference in some cases. The paper concludes that assumptions made including value choices with ethical aspects are of importance when ranking waste treatment options. Uncertainties related to the assessment of toxicological impacts can also influence the conclusions. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Different waste treatment options for municipal solid waste have been studied in a systems analysis. Different combinations of incineration, materials recycling of separated plastic and cardboard containers, and biological treatment (anaerobic digestion and composting) of biodegradable waste, were studied and compared to landfilling. The evaluation covered use of energy resources, environmental impact and financial and environmental costs. In the study, a calculation model (ORWARE) based on methodology from life cycle assessment (LCA) was used. Case studies were performed in three Swedish municipalities: Uppsala, Stockholm, and Alvdalen. The study shows that reduced landfilling in favour of increased recycling of energy and materials lead to lower environmental impact, lower consumption of energy resources, and lower economic costs. Landfilling of energy-rich waste should be avoided as far as possible, partly because of the negative environmental impacts from landfilling, but mainly because of the low recovery of resources when landfilling. Differences between materials recycling, nutrient recycling and incineration are small but in general recycling of plastic is somewhat better than incineration and biological treatment somewhat worse. When planning waste management, it is important to know that the choice of waste treatment method affects processes outside the waste management system, such as generation of district heating, electricity, vehicle fuel, plastic, cardboard, and fertiliser. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper examines some possibilities and limitations of linking economic information to an life cycle assessment, LCA, when studying municipal waste manage
ment systems. A terminology and methodology for economic assessment of municipal waste management systems is proposed and tested through a case study. The methodology consists of a financial LCC, life cycle costing, (which is used in parallel with an LCA) and an environmental LCC (functioning as a consecutive, weighting tool). In the case study, the financial LCC covers all the costs incurred by the extended waste management system, as though the LCA system was a single economic actor. The environmental LCC uses three different weighting methods to monetarise environmental effects such as emissions and resource use. As both LCCs use the same unit of account, they can easily be added together to a welfare economic tool. This step-by-step aggregation leads to a transparent, reproducible analysis method. A conclusion is that the methodology facilitates the analysis, but that problems remain as municipal waste management often diverge from existing economic systems. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This article discusses the ORWARE tool, a model originally developed for environmental systems analysis of waste management systems, and shows its prospect as a tool for environmental technology chain assessment. Different concepts of technology assessment are presented to put ORWARE into context in the discussion that has been going for more than two decades since the establishment of the US Congressional Office of Technology Assessment (OTA). An even-handed assessment is important in different ways such as reproducibility, reliability, credibility, etc. Conventional technology assessment (TA) relied on the judgements and intuition of the assessors. A computer-based tool such as ORWARE provides a basis for transparency and a structured management of input and output data that cover ecological and economic parameters. This permits consistent and coherent technology assessments. Using quantitative analysis as in ORWARE makes comparison and addition of values across chain of technologies easier. We illustrate the application of the model in environmental technology chain assessment through a study of alternative technical systems linking waste management to vehicle fuel production and use. The principles of material and substance flow modelling, life cycle perspective, and graphical modelling featured in ORWARE offer a generic structure for environmentally focused TA of chains and networks of technical processes. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This environmental assessment of alternative means for managing food waste is based on the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. It covers the service provided by a household in-sink food waste processor (FWP) unit, and alternatives to it. The three alternatives considered are home composting, landfilling food waste with municipal waste ("codisposal") and centralised composting of green (food and garden) waste. The functional unit is defined as management of the food waste produced by a Sydney household in one year. The environmental assessment includes eight environmental indicators and impact categories. This LCA study identifies an environmentally preferable option as well as the key environmental issues. If operated aerobically, home composting has the least environmental impact in all impact categories. The environmental performance of the codisposal option is relatively good, exce
pt with respect to climate change and eutrophication potential. The FWP performed well in terms of energy usage, climate change and acidification potentials, although it makes a large contribution to eutrophication and toxicity potentials. Demonstration of the relatively high water consumption of the FWP is an important outcome of this LCA study, as Australia is the driest inhabited continent on earth. Compared with the other three options, centralised composting has a relatively poor environmental performance due to the energy-intense waste collection activities it requires. Implementing a separate collection and transportation system for organic waste results in relatively high environmental impacts due to the frequency of collections and the small quantities of green waste collected per household. Compared with European cities, significantly larger distances have to be travelled in Sydney, differentiating this LCA from previous work. Non-recurrent impacts of the FWP are identified as causing large contributions to the overall result for this waste management option due to the types of materials used and the low operational capacities of the FWP. Finally, although home composting is clearly the best option in terms of the categories examined in this LCA, there is an important caveat to this result. If operated without due care, home composting loses its allure due to the high greenhouse gas emissions consequent to anaerobic methano-genesis. Although home composting has the capacity to be the best food waste management option, it can also perform worst in relation to a subject in which Australia is already at the bottom of its class. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This study compares six wastewater sludge treatment scenarios applied to a 300,000 equivalent-inhabitant (eq. inh) wastewater treatment plant: agricultural spreading, fluidised bed incineration, wet oxidation, pyrolysis, incineration in cement kilns and landfill. The study focuses on energy and emissions contributing to global warming over the whole treatment life cycle. As a result, avoided burdens by coproducts are very important in terms of energy consumption and pollutants' emissions. The energy balance suggests that incineration and agricultural spreading have the lowest non-renewable primary energy consumption. For global warming, incineration in cement kilns has the best balance; landfill and agricultural spreading the worst. Results are now being extended to digested sludges and to impacts on human health and ecosystems. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) studies show that landfills have a large impact on the environment if long-term time horizons are considered. In this paper, the authors use new site-dependent models for slag landfills and transport in soils to estimate the emissions of heavy metals to the groundwater. The results suggest that landfills remain a risk to the environment for very long time periods. The long-term emissions might be valued differently than current emissions, for instance, as a result of a changing background concentration in the environment. A scenario analysis was performed to calculate the future background contamination of the Swiss groundwater with Cd2+ and Cu2+. The environmental impacts of slag disposal were assessed considering this changing background contamination (method applied: S
wiss Method of Ecological Scarcity). The impacts of the Cu2+ emissions from the slag landfill to the groundwater were found to be more important than in previous analysis, where the landfill emissions had been assumed to enter the surface water and where the background contamination was assumed to be constant over time. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Managing waste sustainably requires an assessment of the environmental costs and benefits of alternative waste management practices on a more sound and objective basis. The International Expert Group on life cycle assessment for integrated waste management (IEG) is a leading group of environmental experts with an interest in using Life Cycle techniques to inform waste management decision-making. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a technique that can be used to provide information about the likely polluting emissions and predicted environmental impacts of alternative designs for products or services. LCA for waste management specifically focuses on the environmental consequences of discarding waste materials and consumer products, identifying the costs of waste collection, treatment and any potential benefit of utilising the discarded material. Through iterative examination of various treatment alternatives for wastes, LCA can help identify optimal environmental solutions for managing wastes, without risking that the choice of decisions will result in a worsening of the overall impact. The IEG holds biannual workshop-style meetings to share international knowledge in the research area and to progress research activities. The meetings consist of presentations on life cycle modeling, LCA case studies for municipalities and specific waste streams, as well as pioneering research on decision-making and interpretation. Technical matters and issues of consistency of approach are also addressed during meetings through the knowledge and research activities of members and through the invitation of guest experts to meetings. This article provides an introduction to the work of the IEG and a summary of discussions from the 11th meeting of the group. Crown Copyright (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In spite of many recent advances in the impact assessment of emissions to air, surface water, and upper-soil layers, methods for emissions to deep soil layers and the groundwater are still missing for assessment tools such as life-cycle assessment (LCA). The goal of this paper is to provide such a method for assessing the fate of heavy metals in soils. The method was developed for the emissions from slag landfills but could, in principle, also be used in other applications. Our guidelines serve to estimate the transport time needed for a heavy metal to reach the groundwater as a function of spatial parameters such as infiltration rate, macropore flow, pH value, content of organic material, and distance to the groundwater. Default values for these parameters are suggested for typical landfill sites in Switzerland. The application of the method is illustrated in three case studies of actual landfill sites in Switzerland. The results of these case studies indicate that the retardation of heavy metals varies greatly depending on the local properties of the soil considered. Moreover, it is illustrated how the suggested procedure can be integrated into existing multimedia-fate models us
ed in LCA. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A case study of beer production in Greece has been performed. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) has been used to identify and quantify the environmental performance of the production and distribution of beer. LCA methodology provides a quantitative basis for assessing potential improvements in environmental performance of a system throughout the life cycle. The system investigated includes raw material acquisition, industrial refining, packaging, transportation, consumption and waste management. Energy use and emissions are quantified and some of the potential environmental effects are assessed. The impact categories most affected by the beer production. are the earth toxicity, or heavy metals, and the category of smog formation. Bottle production, followed by packaging and beer production are found to be the subsystems that account for most of the emissions. Thus, the attempt to minimize the adverse environmental impacts caused by the beer production should focus on the minimization of the emissions produced during these subsystems. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The production of aluminum billets-starting from the conversion of bauxite to alumina, the processing of alumina to aluminum, and the final cast product-is studied using a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach. The aluminum supply chain consists of a refinery, a smelter, and a casting plant. In the LCA model, the environmental loads of four different case scenarios were investigated. The scenarios included various approaches employed for improving the environmental performance of the system for the production of I ton of aluminum metal. The final impact assessment results for the overall environmental loads of the supply chain showed cumulative decreases of 2.2% and 3.8% for Scenarios 2 and 3, respectively. In Scenario 2, scrap metal was reduced from the casting plant. For Scenario 3, the reduction of scrap metal from casting was accompanied by improvements of both energy efficiency and reject rates at the smelter. A significant cumulative decrease of 32.8% was obtained in Scenario 4, which was mainly due to the reduction of red mud from the refinery by about 50%. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A three-day workshop was held in October 2001 to discuss life cycle inventory data for electricity production. Electricity was selected as the topic for discussion since it features very prominently in the LCA results for most product life cycles, yet there is no consistency in how these data are calculated and presented. Approximately 40 people attended all or part of the meeting to discuss issues of data modeling and collection. Attendees included recognized experts in the electricity generation and life cycle assessment fields. Five main topics of discussion were identified before the meeting began: (1) modeling the response of the energy supply system to demand (i.e. marginal versus average data); (2) defining the breadth and width of system boundaries to adequately capture environmental flows and data that are needed for impact modeling; (3) allocating environmental burdens across co-products that come from the same process; (4) modeling new and non-traditional technologies in which the data are highly uncertain; and (5) including transmission and distribution in modeling of electricity generation. Breakout groups a
ddressed the first four topic areas in individual discussion groups and reported the results in a plenary session on the last day of the workshop (it was decided during the meeting to include "transmission and distribution" in other discussions). A key success of the workshop was the creation of the larger network of LCA and electricity production experts which will provide a good foundation for continued discussions. Published by Elsevier Ltd.Waste solvent incineration is an important issue in life cycle assessments (LCAs) dealing with chemical products and/or processes. Nearly all chemical products and processes involve organic solvents, and incineration is often the favoured solution to waste solvent treatment as it can deal with a large variety of solvent types and quantities. At present, there are no generic models for waste solvent incineration which allow integrating this technology as a unit process in LCA. As waste solvents as a rule are incinerated as a mixture of several solvents, an allocation problem occurs: measurements of the consumption of ancillaries and energy carriers, and of emission of pollutants and generation of co-products, always refer to the mixture of waste solvents. However, in LCAs usually waste specific data is needed. To solve this problem we developed a multi-input allocation model of the incineration process. A comprehensive case study on a waste solvent incineration plant from chemical industry provided the necessary data. The results from the multi-input allocation modelling are consumption and emission factors which facilitate the calculation of solvent specific life cycle inventory results. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Prospective life cycle assessment (LCA) provides information on the environmental consequences of individual actions. Retrospective LCA provides information about the environmental properties of the life cycle investigated and of its subsystems. In this paper we analyse the links between the choice of methodology and different theories of normative moral philosophy. The choice of electricity data in an LCA of a conference site with local hydropower production is discussed as an illustration. The two types of LCA can be related to different theories on the characteristics of a good action. Each type of LCA, as well as each of the moral theories, can be criticised from the alternative point of departure. Decisions based on retrospective LCA can have environmentally undesirable consequences. On the other hand, prospective LCA can appear unfair and result in environmentally sub-optimised systems. Both types of LCA also have methodological limitations. We cannot conclude that one type is superior to the other, but the choice of methodology should be consistent with the information sought in the LCA. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.There are decision situations where environmental impacts need to be compared with other costs or benefits that by their nature are expressed in terms of money. Supporting these decisions may require the expression of environmental impacts in monetary units. Using the example of health impacts from road noise we apply five different monetization approaches and quantify the monetary values of one year of sleep disturbance (CHF 2500-16000) and interference with communication (1500-10000). In Life Cycle Assessment many health endpoints need to 
be evaluated at the same time. Therefore, we illustrate here the transferability problem between health impacts measured in disability adjusted life years (DALYs) and monetized health impacts, using the example of health impacts due to 1000 truck kilometres. It is concluded that available monetization methods need careful adaptation for their use to monetize environmental health impacts, that the DALY accounting system may support the systematic monetization and the selection of relevant health endpoints, and that it may well be justified for LCA purposes to perform some novel primary willingness to pay studies. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In this paper a generic model for life cycle inventory (LCI) data collection is presented and applied to a product system of a Digital System Telephone (DST). It is shown that the intermediate unit processes (IUPs) are of global warming importance. Compared to earlier efforts in the field of environmental life cycle assessment of electronic products, this model enables a more partitioned LCA result, with respect to both components and processes. In our model the components are first divided into main groups and then into sub-groups. This division results in process modules for unit processes, some of which are similar to the ongoing components, thus, reducing the computational effort. The model is demonstrated for a "cradle-to-gate" calculation focusing on greenhouse gas emissions. Using scenario analysis for integrated circuits and printed wiring boards, the possible contribution from IUPs was analysed. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Final impact results from an industry-wide environmental life-cycle assessment of cathode ray tube (CRT) and liquid crystal display (LCD) computer monitors are presented for 20 environmental impact categories. Considering the entire life cycle of each monitor, water eutrophication and aquatic ecotoxicity impacts for the baseline analysis were greater for the LCD while all other impact categories (e.g., resource use, energy, ozone depletion, landfill space use, human health toxicity) were greater for the CRT. Energy inputs from CRT glass manufacturing, for which there was some uncertainty in the data, drive many of the CRT impacts. Modifying the glass energy data based on comparison to secondary data resulted in nine of the 20 impact categories having greater relative life-cycle impacts for the LCD than the CRT. When comparing the manufacturing stages of each monitor type in the baseline scenario, the LCD has greater relative burdens on the environment in eight categories. Energy, global warming, and human health toxicity impacts are also presented in greater detail, showing contributions from each life-cycle stage. This study's results can allow industry to focus on frit manufacturing, PWB manufacturing improvements can be made. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier Ltd.Solar thermal systems feed on a "clean" energy source. However, a complete analysis of the environmental performance of solar thermal collectors should take into account not only their operation phase, but also their whole life cycle. This paper reports the results of a life cycle assessment of a solar thermal collector with integrated water storage. The study, carried out by means of SimaPro 5.0 software, aims at drawing a thorough environmental profile of the collector, highlighting th
e most relevant contributions to the total impacts, measured by means of a set of aggregate environmental indicators. In order to evaluate the possible improvements of the system configuration, several sensitivity analyses were performed, for different phases of its life cycle. Thanks to this optimization, the reduction of the impacts could be up to 40%. Environmental pay back times were calculated as well. Their values range from 5 to 19 months, remarkably lower than the expected lifespan of the systems (15-20 years). (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The concept of eco-efficiency, product or service value per environmental influence, was applied to define "total CO2 efficiency", "direct CO2 efficiency" and "indirect CO2 efficiency" using Input-Output (I-O) table analysis for the evaluation of companies and industries. The result shows that the analysis of the efficiency was useful to characterize industries according to CO2 efficiency. The comparison of company-based CO2 efficiency against I-O-based CO2 efficiency was possible for beer companies and petroleum companies because they almost completely belong to a single type of industry sectors. However, generally such comparison was difficult for the companies that belong to many industry sectors. Therefore, we proposed the new method "integrated CO2 efficiency index for company evaluation (ICEICE)" which makes it possible to compare the environmental performances of all the companies regardless of the number of industry sectors they belong to. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment (LCA) was applied to perform an environmental comparison between the phosphate fertilizers fused magnesium phosphate (FMP) and triple superphosphate (TSP). In order to perform the comparison a functional unit (FU) of 41.66 kg P2O5, which corresponds to 208 kg FMP (20% P2O5) and 93 kg TSP (45% P2O5) was defined. Concerning the product systems a "cradle to gate" approach was used in both cases. In order to perform the life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) the impact categories: global warming potential (GWP), ozone depletion potential (ODP), human toxicity potential (HTP), fresh water aquatic ecotoxicity potential (FWAETP), acidification potential (AP) and eutrophication potential (EP) were selected. The development of this step was accomplished using CML 2 baseline 2000 method, with the help of the computational tool SimaPro 5, version 5.1.0.21. The study identified that in the case of FMP, the extensive electricity dependence is the main source of potential negative environmental impacts. On the other hand, for the TSP, the great distances between the phosphate rock mines and the main manufacture centers for both H3PO4 and TSP together with the transportation model adopted in this country appear as the main causes of environmental impacts. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle management (LCM) aims at expanding the scope of the environmental management system of a company to address the up- and downstream impacts associated with the activities of its suppliers and customers. It is based on a perspective that focuses on products and the corresponding processes in addition to facilities and production sites. Therefore, the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology plays a central role in implementing LCM. At Alcan, one of the world's leading producers of aluminum m
aterials and products, as well as composite components and packaging solutions, LCA as a core element of LCM is being used for a variety of applications. In order to achieve the objectives of LCM and to ensure efficient decision support, the LCAs are performed in a simplified mode. Simplifications predominantly concern up- and downstream processes outside of Alcan's direct control as well as impact assessment procedures, the reuse of internal life cycle inventory analysis modules, and the aggregation and presentation of the results for top-management and other internal decision-makers. A recently completed LCA from the automotive sector demonstrates the ongoing implementation of LCA at Alcan. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.LCAccess is an EPA-sponsored web-site intended to promote the use of life cycle assessment (LCA) in business decision-making by facilitating access to data sources that are useful in developing a life cycle inventory (LCI). While LCAccess does not itself contain data, it is a searchable global directory of potential data sources. In addition to directing users to relevant data sources, LCAccess also serves as a central source for LCA information. To find the LCAccess web-site go to: http://www.epa.gov/ORD/ NRMRL/lcaccess. LCAccess is soliciting organizations that have completed LCI/LCA studies to provide their data sources for reference in LCAccess. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In the late 1990s, members of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) launched several international working groups with the task to discuss and, if possible, harmonise different aspects of the methodology for life-cycle assessment. The reports from these working groups were published in 2002-2005. Edited summaries of these reports are included below. The summaries are reprinted, with kind permission, from the SETAC publications, Code of life-cycle inventory practice, Life-cycle impact assessment: striving towards best practice, Working environment in life-cycle assessment, Scenarios in life-cycle assessment, Life-cycle assessment of metals: issues and research directions, Life-cycle assessment in building and construction, and Life-cycle management. Copyright: SETAC, Pensacola, Florida, USA. (c) 2005 SETAC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In this paper, a mathematical programming-based methodology is presented for the explicit inclusion of life cycle assessment (LCA) criteria as part of the strategic investment decisions related to the design and planning of supply chain networks. By considering the multiple environmental concerns together with the traditional economic criteria, the planning task is formulated as a multi-objective optimization problem. Over a long-range planning horizon, the methodology utilizes mixed integer modelling techniques to address strategic decisions involving the selection, allocation and capacity expansion of processing technologies and assignment of transportation links required to satisfy the demands at the markets. At the operational level, optimal production profiles and flows of material between various components within the supply chain are determined. As such, the formulation presented here combines the elements of the classical plant location and capacity expansion problems with the principles of LCA to develop a quantitative decision-support tool
 for environmentally conscious strategic investment planning. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.An ECO-optimized reuse of process liquors addresses the financial gain and the effective use of resources. In processes that have a potential for process liquor recovery, the minimization of both economic and environmental burdens can be realised by an ECO-optimal design of reuse and recycling network (RRN). In this paper, a procedure for synthesizing such an RRN for a metal finishing process is investigated. The simultaneous analysis of environmental impact sensitivity (SAEIS) based on a superstructure approach, combined with multi-objective optimization is performed by mixed-integer nonlinear programming (MINLP). This allows an "eco-eco" trade-off i.e. total annualized cost and environmental impacts are minimized simultaneously. By varying the weighting factor, different RRN alternatives were generated. A replacement of the standard and closed-loop system by these solutions, even for the environmentally friendliest case, yielded a reasonable cost saving on raw material's inputs. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Environmental awareness is increasingly important to society, government, and industry, and there is a strong demand for sustainable development practices. The importance of supply chain management is critical, as it characterizes and influences the life cycles of all products. Within the major logistics trends, outsourcing has a significant potential to increase sustainability in the supply chain as third-party logistics providers (3PLs) focus on improving resource utilization and making processes more efficient. However, their motivation is largely economic, and an environmental perspective is rarely seen in 3PLs. As consumers demand greener alternatives and, subsequently, environmental regulatory measures are implemented, 3PLs will have to become more environmentally and socially aware in order to develop sustainability goals. This study compares two scenarios using life-cycle assessment (LCA): one where logistics functions are handled in-house, and an alternative scenario where such functions are outsourced to a 3PL. The impacts of logistics outsourcing on energy utilization, global warming potential, and fatalities are first quantified in the supply chain of an automobile. Even though vehicle operation, responsible for most of the impacts considered, is outside the domain of logistics functions, logistics outsourcing nonetheless has the potential to reduce energy use and global warming potential by 0.4-2% and fatalities by 0.8-3.3% throughout the entire life cycle of a typical automobile. Road and air transportation are found to account for most of the impacts in all selected metrics. Analyzing logistics outsourcing in the other sectors of the U. S. economy revealed the same trend as observed in the supply chain of an automobile.Technological advancements of Internet communications and the recent evolution of e-commerce have created a viable, emerging framework to conduct business electronically. Undetermined at this point is the environmental impact of the new digital economy and the economic profile of resulting distribution networks. This study develops and employs an integrated modeling framework to compare the environmental impacts of a traditional business strategy with an e-commerce strategy for the perso
nal computer industry. Ecological factors are evaluated to provide an overall comparison of the 2 business strategies over the product's life cycle. Of particular importance are factors relating to the distribution of products through their supply chains. This study's integrated modeling framework includes a simulation component to address the stochastic modeling environment caused by business uncertainty. Also included is an environmental input-output life cycle assessment model to quantify the full direct and indirect impacts of different business strategies. Outputs from this model include measures of electricity, natural gas, fuel and packaging expended, retail and warehouse space used, energy expenditures, vehicle emissions, and 20 different pollutants resulting from different business strategies. Results of the study suggest 40% to 50% reduction in life cycle energy and pollutant expenditures with e-commerce in the personal computer industry.Background, Aims and Scope. Sediments in harbours and nearby shipyards demonstrate widespread contamination with tributyltin (TBT). Therefore, reuse and relocation of dredged material from these locations are prohibited. Even if the International Marine Organization (IMO) convention concerning TBT-based paints is ratified (Champ 2003) the TBT problem in sediments will continue to remain for many years due to the persistence of TBT. Methods. An electrochemical process has been developed to treat polluted sediments. Dredged materials with high and low TBT-contents were studied on a technical and a pilot scale. The treatment process was assessed by chemical analysis and a biotest battery. Additionally, an economic analysis was performed to check the economic feasibility of the process to treat dredged material from two different locations at different operating conditions. Furthermore an up-scaling estimation was performed to evaluate treatment costs at a larger scale, i.e. for a plant having a capacity of 720,000 t/a. Results and Discussion. Butyltin species and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) were decomposed due to electrochemically-induced oxidation, while the treatment did not alter heavy metal and PCB concentrations. The bacteria luminescence test indicated a reduced toxicity after the electrochemical treatment, while the algae growth inhibition test and bacteria contact test did not confirm these results. Based on a small consumer price of euro 0.12/kWh, treating the high-contaminated sediment in the pilot plant would cost Euro 21/m(3) and Euro 31/m(3) for the low contaminated sediment, respectively. Assuming an industrial consumer price of Euro 0.06/kWh for electricity in an up-scaled process with a capacity of 720,000 t/a, the total treatment costs for the low contaminated sediment would be Euro 13/m(3). Conclusion. The results of treating dredged material from Bremerhaven and the fine-grained fraction from the METHA plant show that the effectiveness of the process performance is more related to the binding form and sediment composition than to the initial concentration of TBT. The electrochemically treated material complies with chemical criteria for relocation of dredged material, but post-treatment, e.g. washing and/or reduction of remaining oxidants with Fe-II-salts, is needed to fulfil ecotoxicological criteria for relocation. Economic investigations have shown that the electroc
hemical treatment might be a technical option to treat TBT contaminated, dredged material. However, the technique is not fully developed and cannot remove all chemicals of concern, e.g. heavy metals. The decision as to whether this technique can be applied is site-specific and should be taken based on the case-by-case approach. Recommendation and Outlook. Since biotests integrate the effects of all contaminants present in a sample, process-accompanying evaluation procedures need additional assessment methods such as TIE (toxicity identification evaluation) as a second tier following ecotoxicological tests, in which the reasons for the effects are identified. For reasons of sustainability, a much more effect-oriented and long-term cost effective approach should be applied in future to avoid the release of harmful substances into the environment. Life cycle assessment should be carried out to identify and quantify impacts of sediment treatment processes in order to take into account both the distant effects of local actions and local effects of distant actions.The article is a road map of contemporary trends in protection of the environment from pollution, as seen by screening the open literature. Due to a great number of data and a huge number of references only the identification of trends was posible, defying any attempts to form a coherent reference system. The article is but an annotated bibliography of the most important (by the author's assessment) papers. The article deals with the following topics: cleaner production, life cycle assessment, the environmental Kuznets curve, and ethics in development investments. The main message of the article is that scientific data need translation into forms usable by decision makers. The article aims to prove the need for multidisciplinary approach to problems: technics and technology are but tools to materialize innovative trends; decisions are being made through political considerations in harmony with economic laws and sociological assessments.During aluminium production, frequent failure of copper anode bar was observed. The average life cycle of the bar was found to reduce from 50 cycles to 20 cycles during a specified time span. While reduction, it was observed that both stiffener and the bar were continuously exposed to flue gas. Failure in the vicinity just above the MS stiffener takes place due to gradual reduction in cross-sectional area of the Cu-bar as a result of oxidation, pitting and crack formation. Microstructural analysis also reveals that the presence of pits/voids are also responsible for such failure. In fact, the failure is attributed mostly due to the intergranular mode. In order to prevent such failure, a few remedial measures are suggested. Among them, stringent quality control of the copper metal before and after the fabrication of bar as well as also increasing the height of the stiffener could well be explored.Purpose - From a methodological point of view, life cycle costing (LCC) is well developed with respect to conventional costs. However, when it comes to costs related to environmental issues, neither the items nor their estimation have been well developed. This paper aims at investigating the possibilities of using life cycle assessment (LCA) results to identify and estimate environmental costs or benefits in an LCC. Design/methodology/approach - The paper begins
 by looking at the driving forces for introducing environmental costs in companies, continues by identifying external and internal environmental cost issues, and concludes with an attempt to estimate the internal costs. Findings - Some of the items of an LCC have to do with increased/decreased sales, others with good will. Both are difficult to estimate, but LCA or LCA-like investigations may be helpful in identifying relevant issues. Future costs to the product system may also be estimated, for example, with a distance-to-target type of weighting. LCA may be helpful in roughly estimating risks, especially together with those LCA impact assessment methods that model damage. Such an item in LCC can be dealt with as an insurance fee or, if the risk is too high, as a way of including necessary preventive actions. Research limitations/implications - The literature on the subject is limited and not sufficient to aid in estimation of environmental costs and benefits for a company. It seems reasonable to begin an improvement of the methodology by looking at future costs and benefits. Practical implications - This paper may help in structuring the task of using LCA information for estimating environmental costs in LCC. Originality/value - There has been increased interest recently in the integration of LCA and LCC, such as in the SETAC (Society for Ecotoxicology and Chemistry) working group on LCC. This paper contributes with new outlooks and structures for that work.Purpose - To provide a tool to evaluate the economic and ecological feasibility of new and existing mining projects using a combination of environmental goals expressed in life cycle assessment (LCA) results with economic goals expressed within life cycle costing (LCC). Design/methodology/approach - Sustainability is developing into a target for an increasing number of industries and governments. As a consequence focus has shifted from the production process to the entire life cycle. LCA is a tool that can help producers make better decisions concerning environmental protection, whereas the aim of LCC analysis is to create a cost-effective model for environmental impact assessment. Findings - Study of the influence of the environmental cost of projects should be based on long-term analysis of environmental investment. Using the life cycle net present value (LCNPV) method it is possible to compare different investment options, and this method can be treated as a tool that can help producers to make better decisions pertaining to environmental protection. Research limitations/implications - Internalisation of external costs and valuation of environmental costs are the biggest problems for LCC calculations. Practical implications - Mining producers can reasonably expect that implementation of LCA and LCC will lead to minimisation of environmental impact of their activities and to more effective environmental, cost and waste management. This means savings through reducing the amount of waste emissions and a decrease in fees and fines. Originality/value - The use of the tools described in this paper will increase the efficiency of the decision-making process, demonstrating the connection between activity and devastation of the environment.Purpose - To present the EU project DANTES (Demonstrate and Assess New Tools for Environmental Sustainability), conducted by Akzo Nobel Surface Chemistr
y AB, ABB, Stora Enso and Chalmers University of Technology. One of the project's goals is to assess and demonstrate tools such as life cycle assessment (LCA), environmental risk assessment (ERA) and life cycle costing (LCC). Design/methodology/approach - Different strategies for eco-efficiency evaluation based on existing tools as well as case study results are demonstrated through the project's web site (see www.dantes.info) and through several information campaigns during the project period. The paper presents an overview of environmental assessment tools and strategies for using these tools and methods. Findings - Provides information on the use of sustainability tools and methods, indicating the problems that can be addressed by the application of the tool as well as how and who can use the tool. The results from the project were translated into strategies for eco-efficiency evaluation based on existing tools. Practical implications - Implementation of the strategies demonstrated in the project reduces costs by increasing the performance of products, processes and services, as well as the drive and awareness of companies' personnel in environmental issues. It also promotes good practices. Originality/value - This paper describes the DANTES project, which is aimed at educating industries on how to use sustainability tools to address environmental problems. It offers practical help to different departments within companies.Purpose - Aims to investigate the contribution of life cycle assessment to global sustainability reporting of organizations. Design/methodology/approach - Assesses the current state of global sustainability reporting and points out future trends of reporting within the three dimensions of economy, environment and society. Findings - The internal and external communication of the corporate performance is a very important company way to sustainable development. The communication of the corporate performance comprises the strategic and operational goals, the corporate performance data on inventory level, the translation of the inventory data to sustainability core indicators as well as the performance evaluation in terms of sustainability. The future trends on policy level and in customer demands are moving towards a product-related consideration of sustainability issues, the inclusion of indirect effects over the life cycle in addition to the site-related effects of companies' activities, the analysis of results on impact level as well as the automation of data administration. Originality/value - The methodology of life cycle assessment (LCA) provides the main starting-point for global sustainability reporting including the emerging future trends in this context. This paper shows that results of impact assessments as central parts of an LCA are a good basis for creating significant indicators for sustainability reports.The paper gives an overview of the main issues of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of a product. The types and main components of LCA are briefly discussed. The holistic approach of LCA of any product is outlined. The main categories of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) are highlighted. The modem approach of ship Design for Environment is presented. The LCA of ships is addressed to clarify energy consumption and environmental impacts. Particular emphasis is placed on the methods commonly used to reduce en
ergy consumption and environmental impacts over the three stages of ship construction, ship operation and ship scrapping. The rationalization of materials used in shipbuilding and ship scrapping is emphasized. The solid waste management hierarchy is presented. The importance of using LCA to determine the environmental performance of ships is highlighted.Three water-immiscible coolants are compared due to their environmental burdens using LCA methodology. Main focus lies on an animal fat ester based product that is compared to a plant seed oil (rape) based ester and a mineral oil product. All indicators show that the animal fat product causes the lowest potential impact on the environment, whereas results for plant seed ester based and conventional coolants are ambiguous and do not allow for a clear preference of the one or the other. Advantage of native ester products is very clear in energy balance and abiotic resource depletion but in some impact categories scores of plant seed esters clearly exceed those of mineral oil. &COPY; 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The New Zealand dairy industry faces political and commercial pressure to improve its environmental performance while maintaining commercial competitiveness in a global marketplace. In response to such pressures, the industry has taken some steps to improve the environmental management practices of dairy farmers. Despite significant effort, however, the dairy sector remains highly influenced by global competition, and continues to subordinate environmental sustainability to economic productivity. Furthermore, government institutions have had limited control over farm management practices, or the extent to which public policies militate against the relentless rise in land use intensification. As a consequence of its environmental impacts, dairy farming has received widespread public criticism over the past decade. The dairy industry has responded by bringing environmental concerns within the ambit of dairy farm management. The aim of this paper is to assess the concept of ecological modernisation, as an environmental policy model, with reference to New Zealand's dairy industry. The focus of the paper will be on the management of dairy effluent and water quality, because environmental initiatives by the industry and policy actions by regional and central government have focused most strongly on these elements. Ecological modernisation as a term has been variously applied to several separate phenomena. They include a growing body of theoretical literature in environmental sociology, political and industrial programmes concerned with improving the environmental performance of industry through rational environmental management, 'reconciling economic development and environment'. Examples of representative practices include 'strategic environmental management', 'cleaner production', 'industrial life cycle analysis', and 'environmental quality assessment' systems such as ISO 14001. Some proponents of ecological modernisation view it as synonymous with sustainable development. According to ecological modernisation theorists, it as a social practice offers the means by which industrial society can hope to make a transition toward ecologically sustainable production. They espouse greener technologies, 'polluter pays', and 'ecological rationality'. Socio-political practices and policie
s that promote such change should be encouraged, including knowledge-based institutions, innovation and the application of sophisticated new technologies. However, despite the promise of new environmental management policies and practices by the regional councils and dairy industry, the continuing decline of water quality in many parts of New Zealand suggests that ecological modernisation is unlikely to prevent the gradual, unremitting, environmental deterioration, so long as the main drivers behind agricultural intensification continue. New Zealand is also experiencing a fundamental and seemingly irreconcilable conflict between the economic dynamic of capitalist production for food, and protection of the nation's natural environment and habitats. As critics of official environmental policies have often argued, the current mismatch between green objectives and the planning approach has allowed politicians to claim the possibility of win-win solutions. Policy simulation modelling may thus become politically sensitive if it makes this mismatch between green agendas and the rational planning approach apparent. Set against this stark background, current trends suggest that the ecological modernisation of New Zealand's dairy industry is not likely to compensate for the environmental consequences created by the expansion of the dairy industry.During the last two decades, several research groups as well as consultants have been analysing the environmental impacts of incineration in comparison to other waste treatment options. Methods and models for describing these systems have been developed. Systems studies on local, regional and national level have been performed using a wide range of different modelling approaches. The aim of this paper is to describe the environmental performance of incineration with energy recovery in Europe in comparison with other options for waste treatment/recovery. This includes identifying key factors that largely affect the outcome from environmental systems studies where such comparisons are made. The paper focuses on mixed solid waste and on waste fractions where there has been a lot of controversy whether the material should be recycled, incinerated or treated biologically (e.g. paper, plastics, compostable material). The paper is based on a meta-study, where the above research field is mapped out in order to gather relevant systems studies made on local, regional and national levels in Europe. By thoroughly examining these studies, conclusions are drawn regarding the environmental performance of incineration with energy recovery and regarding key factors affecting the environmental results.The development of electricity technology from the environmental aspect has become the key factor for competitiveness, i.e., environmental friendliness is one of the most important considerations for technology development. Under the monopolised electric industry of the past, there was little motivation for individual companies to actually manage their company. However, because of the increasing demand for energy and the concerns for the environment, energy policies are shifting towards a sustainable development, which considers both the economics and environmental protection. According to the paradigm shift of the energy policy, it is necessary to compare two major electricity sources from the view of enviromnental management
 issues. It is effective with the common dimensionless unit concerning the various environmental categories including the radiological and non-radiological points of view, which can be realized by the new environmental impact assessment methodology such as the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). This study aims at a comparison of the environmental impacts of the nuclear and coal power generation systems using the LCA methodology. These results are very preliminary ones, however, this study will be helpful in making a decision on a long term electricity plan and the energy mix optimization when considering the environmental aspect in Korea and also the power generation companies could enhance their images by showing off their willingness to improve the environmental quality.Decision-making by life-cycle-approaches is a matter of responsibility and plays a substantial role in corporate identity of innovative companies. The use of customised tools and databases is growing. In product optimisation, the decisions can be based on available life-cycle information and a sustainable decision with a company's perspective can be drawn. Green procurement decision-making can be especially demanding because the 'best available decisions' from the viewpoint of the (often diverse thinking) public may be required. The presentation shows various effects of life-cycle-related decision-support in product optimisation and green procurement by applying and modifying successful approaches. Databases already available can be adapted to specific situations and offer an ideal basis for effective decision support. This issue is presented using PVC as an example. PE Europe is the leader of an international consortium working on a report for the European Commission, sorting and structuring available LCA facts about PVC for decision support in future PVC policy. The way of structuring available information led to a discussion of the pros and cons of different solutions, which will be shown. The overview of different aspects enables prioritisation using Life Cycle Assessment, to support decision making effectively and to avoid omitting important facts. Professionals in companies and in (public) procurement fields may be inspired to base their decisions on life-cycle related information and may be encouraged to take immediate steps towards sustainability. Academics obtain feedback on the most important topics in 'public' decision-support that will inspire further target-oriented life-cycle research.Recently more and more consumers apply Web-Based decision support systems in practice, because more people have gained the possibility to use the Internet. Also, special requirements for such system's development have been applied. Therefore, traditional models of ethical decision-making cannot always be directly applied in such systems. In this paper the Web-Based Model of Multiple Criteria Ethical Decision-Making is developed by the authors that is based on ethical (autonomy, beneficence, nonmaleficence, justice and fidelity) and decision-making (life-cycle analysis, multi-variant design and multiple criteria analysis, etc.) principles. This Model can help stakeholders to make the best feasible decision in given circumstances. The proposed Model does not make ethical decisions, but explains a process for investigating a situation.This paper discusses the development of a methodolo
gy proposed to be used as an assessment tool in sustainable engineering management, SMET is sustainable Management of Engineering technologies, aims to provide an assessment tool for engineers of projects and technologies alike in an comprehensive manner which includes, sustainability in all fascists of design, environment (EIS), Life cycle assessment (LCA), social consequences, human interaction and resource management.This paper focuses on the presentation of MIPEL (Optimum Management of Industrial Products at the End of their useful Life), a research project which aims at the application of environmental tools, such as "Life Cycle Analysis" and "Design for Environment", for the optimisation of the environmental management of industrial products (focusing on electrical and electronic equipment). The strategic goal is to decrease the volume of waste, with the use of the following: Optimisation of the environmental management of industrial products at the end of their useful life, with the use of the existing infrastructure. Introduction of new technologies on the disassembly and environmental management of the industrial products at the end of their useful life. Redesign of the industrial products in order to become environment friendly. Exploitation of the parts and materials of the industrial products at the end of their useful life. Environmentally sound disposal of the parts which are not further exploitable. Decrease of the hazardous materials, raw materials and natural resources that are utilised for the production of such products. The above mentioned environmental tools are applied to "NetMod", which is used as a case study in the bounds of the project. "NetMod" is an ISDN Network Terminal that has been developed by INTRACOM S.A., one of the project's partners.Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is a procedure used as an analytical tool for the evaluation of the environmental impact caused by a material, a manufacturing process or product. For an end product, LCA requires both the identification and quantification of materials and energy used in all stages of the product's life, together with their environmental impact. It requires therefore a huge amount of data about materials, components, manufacturing processes, energy consumption and the relevant environmental impacts. For this reason, a number of software and databases has been developed, in order to facilitate LCA users. These are the so-called Eco-Tools, used in an effort to minimize the environmental impact of a product from the materials and the energy used for production. In this paper, LCA is conducted for solar thermosyphonic systems, with the aid of three commercially available Eco-Tools, usually used by LCA practitioners, namely: Eco-It, GEMIS and SimaPro, and the results are compared. Although all three tools claim accordance with the international standards and guidelines, some differences do exist. Eco-It is the simplest of all and its use is restricted solely as a tool for designers in their search for more environmental friendly designs. A small database of materials and processes is included while the values used originate from the Eco-Indicator 99 methodology and can be regarded as dimensionless figures. GEMIS on the other hand, was developed as a tool for the comparative assessment of environmental effects of energy and it includes an extensive database of materials 
and processes. It can perform complete life-cycle computations for a variety of emissions, and can determine resources used; it allows also for cost analysis and environmental assessment. Emission standards, various material process chains and transport services data are available in the GEMIS database. SimaPro includes several inventory databases with a large variety of materials and processes, plus the most important impact assessment methods. It can be used either as a tool for designers, like the Eco-It, or as a tool for the comparative assessment of environmental effects, like GEMIS. In the current analysis SimaPro results are used as comparison basis. A typical solar thermosyphonic system (DSHWS) with a 4 m(2) collector area and a capacity of 150 It that covers the hot water needs of a three person family in Thessaloniki is used as case study. The results of the three tools are compared for each component of the solar system as well as for each material used and for the conventional energy substituted by the system.Through the new approach of Integrated Product Policies (IPP), the European Union is developing measures that influence the supply and demand of environmentally sound products and services. The peculiarity of the Italian production, characterized by the presence of very small enterprises distributed in productive zones, make rather significant the spreading of IPP tools. The wood furniture district of Marche region represents a very interesting case because of its importance for number of enterprises, homogeneity of production typology (and consequently repetition of the actions) and concentration in a bounded area. In this context, the European LIFE project LAIPP "Dissemination of IPP tools in the furniture industry", (October 2004 - April 2007), of which ENEA is a partner, has the following objectives: Survey on a large number of firms of furniture sector to generate a database for benchmarking on environmental performances; Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) on two productive sectors (office furniture and kitchen furniture, aspiration hood included) that will involve six important firms and the respective product chains, with the target to develop sector specific LCA database and to analyse life cycle critical phases; Use by a sample of firms of two specialised softwares tailored for Small and Medium Enterprises: eVerdEE (LCA tool) and TESPI (ecodesign tool); Development of Product Category Rules (PCRs) for two product groups and assignment of an Environmental Product Declaration (EPD); Proposal of a model (and implementation) in the same firms of a Product Oriented Environmental Management System (POEMS). The project foresees three kinds of partners: 1) Public bodies and entrepreneurial Institutions: Marche Region, Municipality of Pesaro, SVIM (a mixed joint-stock company, aiming at implementing public administration action), and the Industrial Associations of Pesaro and Urbino; 2) Scientific and technical bodies: ENEA, University of Ancona, Cosmob (consortium of furniture manufacturers) and Meccano (centre of competence for the mechanical industry); 3) Important companies operating in the wood furniture sector Upper, Grossi Lamiere, Mobilpref, Scavolini and Elica. Awareness and training activities on IPP themes and dissemination of the project results within the main furniture districts in Italy and in some European countri
es will be carried out during the project, involving companies, public organizations, category associations, research centres.It is well known that the building sector significantly contributes in the percentage of total consumption of energy and to associated environmental impacts such as greenhouse gas emissions, toxic air emissions, etc. Consequently, the reduction of the cooling and heating energy consumption in buildings is both of environmental and economical concern. Advanced glazing can have a significant role towards this direction. According to the presented analysis, the building energy consumption can be reduced by 55% when the electrochromic device is used in cooling dominated areas. More than 30 MJ are saved per MJ consumed during its lifecycle, the corresponding CO2 emissions reduction is more than 500 kg CO2 equivalent, while the reduction of toxic emissions can reach 45 kg 1,4-DCB equivalent, when the lifecycle is extended to 25 years. If the lifecycle is extended above 20 years and the device price is reduced to 200 EURO/m(2), each MJ saved would cost less than the current electricity price in Greece (1.07 cent/MJ). The above results indicate the high environmental performance of the EC glazing, their environmental benign nature and enhance their use as energy saving devices adjusted to the building envelope.the construction stage has a great impact on environment. Many countries are now paying great effort to study on standard models and procedures for their application in practical environmental impact assessment. In this paper, in accordance with the LCA (Life-Cycle Assessment) and the conception of working procedure unit, the emphasis was given to develop a new EIA technique framework for environmental impact assessment in construction stage of construction projects. Through the construction procedure analysis and input-output analysis of unit procedure, environmental factors in construction phase are identified and assessed, and the impacts can be aggregated using a weighting system. By this paper, a feasible assessment model may be established to evaluate the environmental impacts of the construction process. The use of the framework is hoped to improve construction environmental performance and sustainability of construction projects.The environmental impact produced in the residential sector is among the biggest in modem society. The energy consumption in this sector accounts for about 40 % of the total energy consumed in a country. Windows are among the main responsible of the energy losses and gains in buildings, affecting both their summer and winter energy balances, and being responsible for up to 25-50 % of the energy consumption due to thermal conditioning purposes, depending on the climate conditions. Modern technology have produced a variety of models aimed at controlling these energy transfers, like double and triple glazed windows filled with heavy inert gases, low-emittance coatings, thermal breaks in frames, etc. However, the fabrication of these new windows requires new consumptions and releases new emissions, and their real environmental and economic benefits are not always guaranteed. For instance, the production of heavy inert gasses like Ar, Kr and Xe requires huge amounts of energy, and therefore is responsible for the associated emissions of pollutants. In this paper, the environmental and econ
omic assessment of the application of double-glazed windows filled with air, Ar, Kr and Xe in typical houses of the Andean and region of western Argentina is performed. The methodology used for the evaluation of the environmental impact is Life Cycle Assessment, while the economic assessment is performed using the Life Cycle Costing method.A comparative hybrid life cycle assessment was conducted to assess two different methods for hydrogen production. Environmental impacts from nuclear assisted thermochemical water splitting are compared to hydrogen production from natural gas steam reforming with CO2-sequestration. The results show that the two methods have significantly different impacts. The nuclear alternative has lower impacts on global warming potential, acidification and eutrophication, and much higher impacts from radiation and human toxicity. A weighting procedure is not applied, hence no overall "winner" can be proclaimed. The relative importance of different impacts remains a challenge for eventual decision makers. Further, the assessment has demonstrated the importance of including economic inputs in a comparative assessment; ordinary process-LCA may produce distorted results since a larger fraction life cycle impacts may occur in one study compared to another.The depletion of the limited non-renewable resources is one of the most important factor for the future existence of mankind. Exergy can be applied as a measure of the quality of limited natural resources. The thermoecological cost can be defined as cumulative exergy consumption of non-renewable natural resources connected with the production of some particular product and the additional cumulative exergy consumption connected with prevention and compensation of environmental losses. The paper presents the analysis of the thermoecological cost of electricity production in coal-fired steam power plants. The methodology of evaluating the thermoecological cost taking into account life cycle of considered product is discussed. The paper includes also the description of the method of calculation of the thermoecological cost resulting from rejection of harmful substances to natural environment. In this case two methods are discussed: the first method is based on monetary indices of harmful impacts of the waste products rejected to natural environment and the second is based on the idea of abatement cost. Results of calculations of the thermoecological cost of electricity taking into account life cycle of installation have been presented. Calculations have been made for Polish conditions, where majority of electricity is produced in coal fired (energy hard coal and lignite) steam power plant.On the condition of lack of resource and energy, research and application of green technology and remanufacturing technology are active and realistic, green manufacture and green remanufacture, which people focused on relate each other more closer than that of the difference between them. In this paper, on the basis of description of green product and remanufacturing product life cycle (LC) design factors which determine the result of remanufacturing process are analyzed together with the important status of design stage in a product life cycle; a hierarchical architecture model of green remanufacturing process facing to a product life cycle is put forward; with purpose of saving resource, 
saving energy and do most possibly less harm to environment, parts and components disposal methods and their optimal selection strategy in different stages during the whole green remanufacturing process are indicated; a design effect field of LC-based green remanufacture is given. According to requests of LC green remanufacture, an upstream hierarchical design strategy and relations between layers within the model are brought forward, a cluster of design criteria is presented. Current design theories with a key of life cycle assessment method associated with green remanufacture are not suitable commonly, the primary reason of imperfection of domestic applicable theory in this field is considered to be the lack of public statistic data, a continuous improvement on the theory offered in this paper is oriented.This paper addresses issues raised by the sub-title of the conference "Geotechnology in harmony with the global environment" and considers how harmony may be assessed. It is argued that harmony with the environment cannot be achieved without sustainability and therefore sustainability must be considered as a first step. An attempt is made to develop a procedure to assess sustainability using life cycle assessment as a model and taking into account human values.This paper investigates the environmental impact of electric energy generation by using a PEMFC and an MCFC system. Fuel cells are considered to be ultra-clean energy conversion devices, since pollutants emissions during operation have a very low concentration, compared to those of traditional energy systems. In order to understand the real environmental impact of fuel cells, this is not enough and it is necessary to study their "cradle-to-grave" life, starting from the construction phase, to the operational life and eventually to its disposal. In fact, it is not really correct to say that fuel cells are almost zero-emission systems, because they produce not-negligible emissions during manufacturing and to produce hydrogen. The method used in this paper is the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), which has been calculated with the software SimaPro 5.0. The functional unit chosen in this study is the production of 1 kWh of electric energy by a PEMFC and an MCFC. Thanks to this approach, the critical process related to the production of energy by the previous fuel cell systems, (i.e. the production of hydrogen by natural gas steam reforming), has been determined. After a separated LCA of the PEMFC and the MCFC, a comparison was made between the two systems, considering the environmental impact of electric energy generation. Finally, the production of electric energy by a PEMFC and an MCFC systems is compared to that by conventional energy conversion systems.Recycling should be promoted to protect the global environment; however, it is difficult to determine its quantitative impact. A life cycle assessment (LCA) becomes currently the most popular method to estimate the impact. The metal-plated resin is the popular material for the parts of the car and furniture. However, it is a difficult material for recycling as the composite material of resin and metal. Recently, the recycling method, which was used by grinding and separation, was developed by Idemitsu Technofine Co., Ltd.. The environmental impact such as the CO2 emission and the yield of waste was estimated for the recycling process by
 LCA. As a result, it became clear that the recycling process was efficient for the environment.Recently, RDF (refuse derived fuel) has been of importance in the treatment of municipal solid waste in view of environmental aspects as well as energy recovery. In this study, a technical assessment of the RDF production process was carried out using the RFTF (recovery factor transform function) method. Various configurations of the RDF processing circuit were evaluated in terms of heat value, mass yield and costs. As a result, the optimum RDF processing line was identified. Currently, the environmental impacts of the process are being evaluated using LCA (Life Cycle Assessment).Fuel Cells seem to constitute one of the most essential solutions in the enormous environmental problem that our planet faces. A Fuel Cell is an energy transforming appliance that changes the gas chemical energy directly to electric energy and heat, without the need of the intermediate combustion stage, achieving much greater effectiveness in comparison with all the other thermo mechanical methods. The basic idea of Fuel Cells operation is identical with this of batteries, with one difference, that Fuel Cells do not need recharge. One of the advantages of the Fuel Cells is the small percentage of emissions that originate in the use phase. Based on this, Fuel Cells seem to be one of the best solutions for the continuous protection of the environment. The application of Life Cycle Assessment has identified all the emissions and waste that occur during the following stages: manufacturing, use and disposal. It has been found that the stage of manufacturing has the highest environmental impact. The advantages of the Solid Oxide Fuel Cells can be summarised in the following ascertainments: The Fuel Cells that function with clean hydrogen (seldom), do not have emissions, beyond flow of electricity and heat. The Fuel Cells that function with hydrogen, which emanates from natural gas, have low emissions of carbon dioxide. When they are combined with thermal units for the exploitation of waste heat, they present exceptional output and are friendly for the environment. The heat that the Fuel Cells produce can be used for heating and refrigeration of internal spaces. Fuel Cells are a clean and reliable technology that will play a significant role in the near future. Basic presupposition for the achievement of this plan is the continuation of the research in the technology of Solid Oxide Fuel Cells but also the intention of the world community in changing the energy production pattern.Consumers have become increasingly interested in the origin and the quality of their food, including the source of food's raw materials, its safety and nutritional value and most recently the environmental impacts of the production systems adopted in producing and delivering the food. Flour is the main ingredient of bread, cakes, pastries and other bakery products which are considered as the base of modern healthy diet worldwide. Moreover, in Mediterranean countries these products have an outstanding acceptance by consumers. In Greece, wheat is cultivated in significant quantities and a number of milling industries supply the food industries and small bakeries with many different types of flour. The national demand for various products of flour-producing industries presented a mean annual increase rat
e of about 1.5% for the years 1999-2000, while the demand for the year 2000 was 753.000 tons. For the same year the national production ranged up to 825.000 tons. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a relatively new, cutting edge environmental decision support tool recently standardised by the International Standardisation Organisation (ISO). LCA is an excellent tool for environmental management, as it provides important information about the environmental burdens associated to a product, a process or any human activity. In this study, a simplified LCA following the "cradle-to-gate" approach has been applied to identify the critical points of the flour production in Greece. The SimaPro software was used for analyzing the main inventory data and estimating the environmental impacts of the overall system (from wheat grain to flour production). The system investigated includes agricultural production of soft wheat, transportation, industrial milling and packaging of the flour. Energy use, material use and emissions were quantified and the main potential environmental effects were assessed. The application of fertilizers, transportation and electrical energy consumption were found to be the 'hot spots' for many, but not all, of the impact categories investigated and specific actions were proposed in the aim to improve the environmental profile of the final product.The article describes and discusses to some detail a method for computing the cost of a commodity in terms of its resource-base equivalent value (as opposed to its monetary cost). The method is called the extended exergy accounting technique (EEA), and its proper application enables the analyst to perform more complete and meaningful assessments of a complex production system, including of course energy conversion processes. The novelty as well as the decisive advantage of EEA consists in its being entirely and uniformly resource-based the so-called externalides (labor, capital and environmental remediation costs) are included in the system balance by means of their equivalent exergetic fluxes, which represent the gross amount of primary exergy required to locally generate the specified amount of capital, the specified number of work-hours, or to reduce the emissions below a certain specified level. EEA owes some of its structural formalism to Sraffa's "network" representation of the economic production of commodities by means of other commodities, which it extends by accounting for the unavoidable energy dissipation in every productive chain. The method has also borrowed several definitions, concepts and procedures from Georgescu-Roegen's classical work on the economic implications of irreversibility on production chains, from Daly's pioneering work in resource-oriented economics and from Szargut's "cumulative exergy content" method. The representation of a general energy conversion process by means of its extended exergy flow diagram is discussed in this article, and it is argued that some of the issues that are difficult to address with a purely monetary approach can be properly resolved by EEA. It is also shown how EEA, being intrinsically "localized" both in time and in space, can account for the non-uniformity of societal conditions without the need of patching the theory with artificial features external to its paradigm. In the conclusions, some indications are given as to the pos
sibility of using the extended exergy accounting technique to supplement and substantially improve Thermo-Economics on one side and Life-Cycle Assessment or Environmental Footprint Analysis on the other side.The objective of this study was to quantitatively evaluate the environmental impact of tomato production in passive greenhouses and to identify the most relevant environmental issues. The LCA approach was used in this study. A tomato crop was cultivated in a steel-framed greenhouse; plants were grown in a closed-loop irrigation system in which the substrate was perlite bags. With the exception of the toxicity indicators, the main sources of environmental impact were fertilizer production and the process for manufacturing the materials used for the greenhouse structure and the auxiliary equipment, substrate, irrigation and recirculation equipment. The relatively short life span of plastic covered greenhouse structures and the minimal input of external energy involved in the production process are the most important factors related with the production process. The study compared the use of two cladding materials: rigid PC sheet with a lifespan of 10 years and flexible LDPE film with a life of three years. The types of cladding compared in this study (PC sheet and LDPE film) are not particularly relevant for environmental analysis.Greenhouse crops, one of the most innovative examples of modern agriculture, are considered to be one of the highest man-made forms of agricultural activity, due to the high level of both technological and bio-agronomic input. Greenhouse crops are characterised by the use of structures and equipment as well as increased energy resources and water use efficiency in the production processes. The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method is an instrument which provides a quantitative estimate of all flows of matter and energy related to the realisation of a product, providing an evaluation of the environmental compatibility and end result of each productive choice. The LCA method can be applied not only to industrial processes but also to agricultural production such as that carried out in greenhouses. The productive choices of the growers in regards to input and materials utilised are principally based on financial factors. The changes brought about as a result of these choices have a long-term effect in terms of the quantity of residuals and quality of the agricultural environment. This paper presents the results of an LCA study conducted on the outcome and importance of critical management and engineering choices in greenhouse agriculture in West European territory. The goal of this research is to provide an objective comparison of the environmental compatibility of horticultural production carried out in varying typology of greenhouses. For this study the three main forms of greenhouses used in Italy have been considered. The three typology of greenhouse are: a pitched roof structure in zinc-coated steel with glass covering; a vaulted roof structure in zinc-coated steel with plastic film covering; and a pitched roof structure in wood with plastic film covering. In order to best analyse the environmental sustainability of greenhouse production, research has been carried out with the active participation of Italian growers in order to acquire credible information regarding the actual consumption of energy and renewable
 and/or non-renewable resources utilised in greenhouse cultivation of tomatoes.While numerous examples of 'sustainable houses' have been designed and constructed, typically as one-off projects by architects, the volume housing market has been slower to respond to an emerging interest in green housing. However, large-scale transformation of housing stock will not be possible without the engagement of this industry segment. This chapter outlines a recently commenced research project to support the volume housing market in moving towards more sustainable practice. The project aims to determine the life cycle environmental performance of the 'EcoHome', a relatively standard home designed for the volume housing market but with a range of easily-adopted modifications incorporated to improve its environmental performance. A comparison of a range of environmental rating tools for houses was conducted to identify the most commonly used indicators of sustainability. These will inform the development of a methodology for rating the EcoHome's performance. Monitoring of a range of parameters will be conducted post-construction and the results will also contribute to an overall evaluation of performance. Life cycle assessment and embodied energy analysis will also be used to quantify impacts.This chapter discusses development of eco-decision support tools and databases designed to facilitate corporate management in sustainable development and construction processes. Such tool developer's alignment of their products with best practice asset management frameworks is critical if they are to be integrated into corporate management systems. Real world asset management issues include discontinuities in work sequencing, multi-layered communications across stakeholders and between policy, procurement and construction development procedures and timelines. CASE studies are shown from two new Government buildings developed to achieve star ratings for Ecologically Sustainable Fitout of Office Accommodation using asset management decision support tools based on Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methods and databases. Using these two studies a comparative assessment is drawn of the application of Australian ecodesign tools, based on quantitative and qualitative LCA. Such tools and assessments are discussed to facilitate eco-efficient building design as well as fitout and refurbishment. The scope of work of the qualitative tool is based upon an asset management framework covering policy, planning, design and documentation, procurement, demolition, construction and pre-occupancy assessments. The quantitative tool exploits more construction detail over a shorter scope of work from acquisition, manufacture and supply of building products and systems through to construction and building operation. Results of a gap analysis are presented to illustrate potential outcomes from each tool and that potential uptake of either tool type can best be appreciated in the wider context of sustainable asset and construction management. Background In the Australian built environment, there is depletion of natural reserves of freshwater, clean air, naturally productive land and pollution of urban air to an extent that it can be detrimental to the health of both human communities and natural ecosystems. The global scale of habitat deterioration and destruction, climate change and depletion of 
natural resources elicited responses from the United Nations with the Montreal Protocol on Ozone Depletion in 1987, the Rio Convention on Biological Diversity in 1992 and the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change in 1997 [1]. Subsequently the Council of Australian Governments' National Strategy for Ecologically Sustainable Development (NS ESD) defined ESD as using, conserving, and enhancing community resources so that ecological processes on which life depends are maintained and the total quality of life now and in the future can be increased [2]. A further national commitment to ESD endorsed in 1996 was the National Greenhouse Response Strategy (NGRS) [3]. Responding to the NS ESD, the national 'CGI-97 Directions Forum' recognized that the total buildings' share of escalating global environmental deterioration was significant and that incorporation of ESD into asset management practices would support such national and global initiatives [4-7]. In 1997 this Forum launched the Built Environment Protocol on issues of: ecologically sustainable procurement in building construction, fitout and use communication and education to promote improved building products and practices minimized building resource use, wastage and emissions to air, land and water improved environmental health performance of buildings/products and services [8].Emergy (spelled with an m) is the energy of one kind, usually solar energy, which is required to make a service or product. The yearly emergy con sumption/production of a building is evaluated considering the Solar Energy Laboratory (LESO) building on the campus of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology of Lausanne (Switzerland). This experimental building was constructed according to special environmental considerations, such as important the use of passive gains (heat emitted from solar radiations, electric appliances and building users). It is therefore characterized by a very low energy consumption, equal to 232 MJ/m(2) year. The LESO building is occupied by faculty and students. Undergraduate and graduate students as well as faculty represent information inputs to the system with their emergy accounting for 94.6% of the emergy inputs to the building, equal to 3.3E18 sej/year (solar emjoules per year). "Educated students" (students who have completed a semester project, master's or PhD research in the laboratory), publications, courses and services are the main outputs of the system. The four outputs are considered as co-outputs, as such the total energy associated to the operation of the building as a structure is entirely assigned to each of them. The evaluation established that a student leaving the LESO building has a transformity (emergy per unit energy) equal to 2AE8 sej/J, which is about three times higher than the one which he/she had upon arrival, representing the knowledge gained through conferences and interactions with other students and professors. Considering only energy and materials inputs, electricity was established to be the largest input to the system (2.7E16 sej/year). The total emergy of the material inflows was determined to equal 1.7E16 sej/year, paper being the largest material input (5.7E15 sej/year). The specific emergy (per mass) of some common building materials was also evaluated and compared to NRE (non-renewable energy). Finally, the question of uncertainties related to the determin
ation and use of average transformities and emergy per mass values is addressed, and advantages and drawbacks of the emergy method are discussed in relation to other common evaluation methodology (exergy, embodied energy, life-cycle analysis). (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In this work a comparative environmental assessment of different advanced oxidation processes (AOP's) is performed. Two energy scenarios have been considered according to the energy source used: solar energy and electricity (UVA lamp). A life cycle assessment (LCA) is carried out in order to quantify the environmental impacts of the AOP's. The treatments considered are heterogenous photocatalysis, photo-Fenton reactions, the coupling of heterogeneous photocatalysis and photo-Fenton, and heterogeneous photocatalysis in combination with hydrogen peroxide. These AOP's are applied to the treatment of kraft mill bleaching wastewaters. The system under study includes the production of the catalysts, reagents as well as the production of electricity; eight environmental impact categories are assessed for each AOP: global warming, ozone depletion, aquatic eutrophication, acidification, human toxicity, freshwater aquatic toxicity, photochemical ozone formation, and abiotic resource depletion. the results of the LCA show that the environmental impact of AOP's is caused mainly by the amount of electricity consumed, whereas the impact of producing the reagents and catalysts is comparatively low. For this reason, the solar energy scenario reduces the impact more than 90% for almost all AOP's and impact categories. None of the solar driven AOP's can be identified as the best in all impact categories, but heterogenous photocatalysis and photo-Fenton reactions obtain better results than the remaining treatments, since these treatments do not consume simultaneously both TiO2 and H2O2, the chemicals with highest environmental burdens in the system. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Larger widespread public concern about sustainability as an answer to the huge pressure put on the medium by the accelerated degree of development is bringing about the emergence of analytical tools with the purpose of assessing environmental damage relating to industrial products or activities in general. According to this project's vocation a new experimental tool, based on generic LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) software aided by a process simulator, is developed to carry out the assessments of several scenarios of waste valorization in the cement process. Starting from a preset base case of zero alternative material usage, the program recalculates environmental impacts of the evolved process taking into account deviations in pollutant emission levels and benefits of waste recovery versus new resource consumption. The results of these analyses will help with decision-making issues concerning the selection and dosage of most adequate waste according to comparison between data obtained from the different scenarios proposed, assuring in this way the minimisation of environmental impact in the recovery/valorization of these alternative materials.This paper describes the development of a Life Cycle Assessment tool for commercial buildings in Hong Kong. The study was commissioned by the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department in the interest of promoting sustainable construction. A computi
ng tool was developed that facilitates building professionals to input the required data to model building design; perform calculations of the environmental impacts, operating energy and life cycle cost of the building; and to compare the impacts and costs of alternative designs. The tool features a user-friendly processing template, with design-oriented data-entry sheets and informative reporting documents for the application of the construction industry in Hong Kong.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a useful tool to evaluate environmental impacts associated with products during their life cycle. However, it has been recognized that LCA has a limitation in assessing open cycle recycling of materials because of inevitable subjective judgments in setting system boundary. According with the enforcement of recycling laws, there has been a rapid increase in recycling ratio of materials at the end-of-life of products in Japan. So, materials' life cycle is getting more complicated, which makes it difficult to quantify the environmental impacts of materials used in a product in an appropriate way. This paper reviews this limitation of conventional LCA and suggests a new methodology for assessing open cycle recycling of materials. The new tool is called "Strategic Integrated LCA Technology for sustainable society, SILT", in which LCA is integrated with population balance model and pinch technology. This tool deals with dynamic aspects of recycling materials and has macro point of view. One can assess the maximum recyclable ratio of the scrap materials and total environmental impacts caused by the material production in a society in each year. In addition, reduction potential of environmental impacts by the introduction of new technology, such as WE, can be quantified by this tool.Steel cans are characterized by high strength to withstand internal pressures and low environmental load because of their high suitability for recycling. The annual consumption of steel cans is 910,000 tons, with a recycling ratio of 87.5% (2003). This recycling ratio is high compared to containers of other materials, which is also at the highest level, internationally. Moreover, if the further recycling of cans, other than standard scraps, being made after incineration is taken into consideration, the recycling ratio rises more than 90%. This report attempts to give a detailed description of the actual state and characteristic features of steel-can recycling. As a result of the LCA (life cycle assessment) of steel cans, based on the fact of "steel products being used cyclically in steel products," it has been proved that steel cans are environment-friendly containers with low CO2 emissions and energy consumption during life cycle. If people associated with steel continue to advocate the above characteristics of steel cans vigorously and widely for the benefit of general consumers, even higher consumption and recycling ratios can be expected.Environmental impact and cost of waste plastics utilization in the steel industry as feedstock materials for blast and electric furnaces were evaluated using scenario-based life cycle assessment technique. These processes were compared with conventional processes including liquefaction and incineration with electric power generation. Since existent process inventory data do not include an input flow of plastic materials and cannot be us
ed for the analysis of scenarios varying plastics flow rate, new process inventory models, which have an input flow of plastics and have other input/output flows depending on the flow rate of plastics, were developed. A case study of the utilization of the industrial waste plastics from Aichi district was performed using our life cycle model. Total emission of carbon dioxide and total energy consumption were used as environmental indices and costs of transportation, investments and utilities were estimated as well. We found that every process is effective from the view point of the reduction of carbon dioxide emission and energy consumption. Especially, the blast furnace has large potential to reduce carbon dioxide emission. The transportation does not have significant contribution to environmental impacts and total cost. As a result, waste plastics utilization in the steel industry is an effective technology to reduce environmental impacts.Many industrial strategies have been developed in order to promote manufacturers' environmental responsibility and consumer's consciousness over the few last decades. However, not many of these efforts have involved the service industries. Information about environmental performance of services is becoming increasingly important nowadays. One of the most extensive tools used to assess the environmental impact of a product, process or activity is LCA (life cycle assessment). It is an iterative process for assessing the consumption of resources, environmental impacts and waste generation associated with the whole life cycle. This methodology has been standardised by different institutions (CEN, ISO and SETAC), and has been applied successfully in a great number of companies. This paper presents a LCA applied to the passengers' transportation service using SIMAPRO 5.1, comparing the impacts of using public road transport with those associated with the use of particular cars for a regional short-distance trajectory. To apply it, we must consider the typical stages identified in the performance of a service: service preparation, service production and consumption, which are simultaneous, and activities after the service (mainly maintenance activities). To sum up, this study helps to support those theories that promote the use of public transport against private. This solution attempts to improve traffic between cities and to improve our environment. In this paper we confirm that cars cause a greater environmental impact than buses on a global scale by making a precise evaluation of the comparatives figures. On the other hand, areas where the bus has a more negative impact can be improved using good environmental practices, for example, recycling materials or components.This two-part paper assesses four strategies for energy recovery from municipal solid waste (MSW) by dedicated waste-to-energy (WTE) plants generating electricity through a steam cycle. The feedstock is the residue after materials recovery (MR), assumed to be 35% by weight of the collected MSW. In strategy 1, the MR residue is fed directly to a grate combustor. In strategy 2, the MR residue is first subjected to light mechanical treatment. In strategies 3 and 4, the MR residue is converted into RDF, which is combusted in a fluidized bed combustor. To examine the relevance of scale, we considered a small waste management system (WMS) serving 2
00,000 people and a large WMS serving 1,200,000 people. A variation of strategy 1 shows the potential of cogeneration with district heating. The assessment is carried out by a Life Cycle Analysis where the electricity generated by the WTE plant displaces electricity generated by fossil fuel-fired steam plants. Part A focuses on mass and energy balances, while Part B focuses on emissions and costs. Results show that treating the MR residue ahead of the WTE plant reduces energy recovery. The largest energy savings are achieved by combusting the MR residue "as is" in large scale plants; with cogeneration, primary energy savings can reach 2.5% of total societal energy use. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This two-part paper assesses four strategies for energy recovery from Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) by dedicated Waste-To-Energy (WTE) plants. In strategy 1, the residue of Material Recovery (MR) is fed directly to a grate combustor, while in strategy 2 the grate combustor comes downstream of light mechanical treatment. In strategies 3 and 4, the MR residue is converted into Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF), in a fluidized cumbuster bed. The results of Part A, devoted to mass and energy balances, clearly show that pre-treating the MR residue in order to increase the heating value of the feedstock fed to the WTE plant has marginal effects on the energy efficiency of the WTE plant. When considering the efficiency of the whole strategy of waste management, the energy balances show that the more thorough the pre-treatment, the smaller the amount of energy recovered per unit of MR residue. Starting from the heat/mass balances illustrated in Part A, Part B examines the environmental impacts and economics of the various strategies by means of a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Results show that treating the MR residues ahead of the WTE plant does not provide environmental or economic benefits. RDF production worsens almost all impact indicators because it reduces net electricity production and thus the displacement of power plant emissions; it also increases costs, because the benefits of improving the quality of the material fed to the WTE plant do not compensate the cost of such improvement. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The identification of significant pollutants emitted from the contamination source is the first step in evaluating the impact associated with anthropic activity. Municipal solid waste (MSW) incinerators are still generally perceived as great pollutant sources, in particular due to their gaseous emissions from the stack, which constitute the major effluent from the plant. In this work a life cycle assessment and an integrated environmental monitoring system were applied together, in order to obtain complete information about the incineration process and its environmental impact. The former is a proven methodology, but its application to waste management systems constitutes a relatively new field of application with a great developmental potential. The contribution of the incineration process to the different environmental impact categories was investigated, finding many avoided impacts due to energy recovery. The latter is an innovative approach that allows a remarkable understanding of impact due to a contamination source; interesting correlations were found between heavy metals both in gas emissions and in natural matr
ices in the surroundings. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This chapter is concerned with waste recycling and also discusses waste reduction and re-use. Municipal solid waste and industrial and commercial waste recycling in Europe are reviewed in detail. Examples of recycling of particular types of waste, i.e., plastics, glass, paper, metals and tyres are also discussed. Economic considerations of recycling are discussed, together with consideration of life-cycle analysis of waste recycling.Sydney Water selected life cycle assessment (LCA) to inform a review of its overall strategic planning document: WaterPlan 21. This assessment covered the entire business and has enabled ecological sustainability to be assessed in terms of quantitative indicators. The LCA was performed by firstly examining a base case which would eventuate if Sydney Water maintained its current operations with only the modifications, augmentations and upgrades planned for implementation between now and 2021. We then performed a number of scenario analyses to examine the benefits of additional demand management, energy efficiency, energy generation, supply augmentation and effluent quality initiatives. The results indicated significant improvements are available and that some of these measures are more desirable than others. We also examined a scenario for the alternative delivery of water and wastewater services in new urban areas. This showed quantitatively that, since connecting new fringe suburbs to the existing system requires significant expenditure on energy for pumping, major improvements in the sustainability of water and wastewater systems can be achieved by using localised, water-saving alternatives.In order to obtain more detailed information for better decision making in future biogenic waste treatment, different processes to treat biogenic wastes in plants with a treatment capacity of 10,000 tons of organic household wastes per year as well as agricultural codigestion plants were compared by life cycle assessments (LCA). With the tool Ecolndicator, anaerobic digestion is shown to be advantageous as compared to composting, incineration or a combination of digestion and composting, mainly because of a better energy balance. The management of the liquid manure in agricultural codigestion of organic solid wastes causes increased gaseous emissions, which have negative effects on the LCA, however. It is recommended to cover the slurry pit and to use an improved manure management in order to compensate for the additional gaseous emissions. In the LCAs, the quality of the digester output could only be taken into account to a small extent; the reasons are discussed.Biological treatment processes including anaerobic digestion (biogasification) and composting are increasingly being considered by waste management officials and planners as alternatives for managing the mainly organic residues of municipal solid wastes (MSW). The integrated waste management model which is based upon the application of life-cycle analysis was employed to compare the environmental burdens of landfilling, composting and anaerobic digestion of MSW at a mid-sized Canadian community. Energy consumption (or recovery), residue recoveries and emissions to air and water were quantified. Scenario comparisons were analyzed to demonstrate that the environmental burdens associated with anae
robic digestion are reduced in comparison with the alternative options. The major benefit occurs as a result of the electricity produced from burning the biogas and then supplying the 'green power' to the local electrical grid.The life cycle analysis can be used to evaluate the environmental impacts of a process and at the same time to propose improvements to mitigate these impacts. These improvements can be evaluated using the pinch technology, which improves the efficiency of the process. Combining these methodologies is possible to improve the environmental and technological performance of the process, having as a tool a calculation leaf of excel for the material and energy balances development of the process. This paper presents the evaluation of the environmental impacts taken place in a stage of the production process of gassy drinks, which has an impact on the resources category, due to high water consumption in the laundry of manufacturing equipments at this stage. Measures have been proposed to improve the environmental and technological performance of the process as part of the fourth phase of life cycle analysis, in order to mitigate the environmental impact produced. On the obtained results, an alternative evaluated with the pinch technology is presented, which indicates the minimum water flow that should be used for this operation, reducing the fresh water quantity needed. The interrelationships between energy and civilization was proposed in the late 19th century [see Martinez-Alier, J., 1987. Ecological Economics. Blackwell, Oxford]. Geddes [Geddes, P., 1915. City in Evolution. Williams and Norgate Ltd., London] also proposed the concept of linking energy flow with urban development in the early 20th century. Many recent studies of the relationship between urban development and energy have been limited to the use of fossil fuels; energy theories have seldom been used to study the evolution of urban systems. The purpose of this paper is to help develop theories of urban energetics and contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms of urban development. We use the concepts from systems ecology [Odum, H.T., 1983. Systems Ecology. Wiley, New York] and emergy theory [Odum, H.T., 1996. Environmental Accounting: Emergy and Environmental Decision Making. Wiley, New York] to relate the driving energies of urban systems to their structure, economy and organization. Hypotheses of urban energetics including changes in the diversity of emergy sources, changes in urban metabolism, energy hierarchy, and relation between emergy and money flows are proposed and tested based on past research results on Taiwan cities (Huang, S.-L., Odum, H.T., Chang, S.-L., 1996. Ecological energetic evolution of urban system, A Report to the Chiang Ching-Kuo International Scholar Exchange Foundation (RG008-D-'92). Graduate Institute of Urban Planning, National Chung-Hsing University, Taipei, Taiwan (in Chinese); Huang, S.-L., 1998a. Urban ecosystems, energetic hierarchies, and ecological economics of Taipei metropolis. J. Environ. Manage. 52, 39-51; Huang, S.-L., Lai, H.-Y., Lee, C.-L., 2001. Energy hierarchy and urban landscape system. Landscape Urban Plan. 53, 145-161]. Thereafter a system model of urban ecosystem is developed to investigate the relationships between energy flows and urban development. The preliminary findings of this research indicate 
that intensive and diversified emergy sources build up the structure and enhance metabolism in urban areas. Four mechanisms of urban energetics are also addressed as a result of simulations: energy convergence; urban-subsidized environmental flows; external-dependency system; maximum power system. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.A macrolevel approach for integrating regional economic models with urban metabolism models is developed. Challenges with consistency and aggregation persist in the integration of urban models between socioeconomic and environmental systems, and between the micro and macro scale. Using an econometric model as a foundation offers a flexible structure, with low data requirements, that might potentially be integrated with microlevel process models. Such an econometric model is developed and verified for the economy of the Toronto region. The economic model is integrated with a greenhouse gas emission model that simulates emissions from the residential, transportation, and solid waste sectors. Emissions are simulated to 2010 for optimistic and pessimistic exogenous economic climates. In the absence of technological change, emissions will increase in the order of 30%, largely as a result of population growth (22%-23%), which is relatively insensitive to economic growth. The potential to decrease emissions through changing land-use development and increased recycling of solid waste is examined.The sustainability is applied in urban systems throught an integrated treatment, analysing the well-being conditions in the urban areas and surroundings. The challenge of the urban sustainability tries to solve the problems inside and outside. The first world, the sustainability of the cities implies different issues: unsustanaible of the urban metabolism and landscape fragmentation, with negative effects in the sustanaible process of the natural systems and changing environmental connectivity. The Local Agenda 21 (LA21) is a model of diagnosis and a tool to make sustainable political programmes, among environmental, social and economical issues. The methodology and objectives imply sustainability indicators (IDS) with an independent monitoring and multidisciplin observatory, as to obtain tendencies and priorities and produce an action plan.A great deal of work has been accomplished on the physical aspects of the sustainable city, but relatively little has been done to explore the alternatives for financing sustainability in the urban context. This paper examines what has been accomplished already to encourage sustainability through the application of financial instruments such as traffic congestion charges, user fees for stormwater management, materials recycling, and similar initiatives. Together these instruments may be seen as constituting the field of 'urban environmental finance' which may be defined as consisting of financial instruments which encourage a transition towards behaviour which supports the sustainability of urban systems. Whereas many examples exist of particular innovations in this area, no urban government appears to have approached the challenge in a comprehensive way using the framework of sustainable urban development. The reasons why this has not yet happened are not difficult to find. For example, politicians are usually reluctant to propose new charges even if they can promise that they will 
be revenue-neutral. Second, in many countries the urban level of government has very limited powers to impose such charges. Third, some schemes require significant costs for data collection and other implementation costs. Examples will be drawn from Canada, the United States, Europe and South-East Asia, with a focus on transportation, water and emissions to the air.
 Cranial morphology is widely used to reconstruct evolutionary relationships, but its reliability in reflecting phylogeny and population history has been questioned. Some cranial regions, particularly the face and neurocranium, are believed to be influenced by the environment and prone to convergence. Others, such as the temporal bone, are thought to reflect more accurately phylogenetic relationships. Direct testing of these hypotheses was not possible until the advent of large genetic data sets. The few relevant studies in human populations have had intriguing but possibly conflicting results, probably partly due to methodological differences and to the small numbers of populations used. Here we use three-dimensional (3D) geometric morphometrics methods to test explicitly the ability of cranial shape, size, and relative positionJorientation of cranial regions to track population history and climate. Morphological distances among 13 recent human populations were calculated from four 3D landmark data sets, respectively reflecting facial, neurocranial, and temporal bone shape; shape and relative position; overall cranial shape; and centroid sizes. These distances were compared to neutral genetic and climatic distances among the same, or closely matched, populations. Results indicate that neurocranial and temporal bone shape track neutral genetic distances, while facial shape reflects climate; centroid size shows a weak association with climatic variables; and relative position/orientation of cranial regions does not appear correlated with any of these factors. Because different cranial regions preserve population history and climate signatures differentially, caution is suggested when using cranial anatomy for phylogenetic reconstruction.The EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) is novel because it integrates water quality, water resources, physical habitat and, to some extent, flooding for all surface and groundwaters and takes forward river basin management. However, the WFD does not explicitly mention risks posed by climate change to the achievement of its environmental objectives. This is despite the fact that the time scale for the implementation process and achieving particular objectives extends into the 2020s, when climate models project changes in average temperature and precipitation. This paper begins by reviewing the latest UK climate change scenarios and the wider policy and science context of the WFD. We then examine the potential risks of climate change to key phases of the River Basin Management Process that underpin the WFD (such as charactelisation of liver basins and their water bodies, risk assessments to identify pressures and impacts, programmes of measures (POMs) options appraisal, monitoring and modelling, policy and management activities). Despite these risks the WFD could link new policy and participative mechanisms (being established for the River Basin Management Plans) to the emerging framework of national and regional climate change adaptation policy. The risks are identified with a view to informing policy opportunities, objective setting, adaptation strategies and the research agenda. Key knowledge gaps have already been identified during the implementation of the WFD, such as the links between hydromorphology and ecosystem status, but the overarching importance of linking climate change to these considerations 
needs to be highlighted. The next generation of (probabilistic) climate change scenarios will present new opportunities and challenges for risk analysis and policy-making. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All lights reserved.Within cetartiodactyl species, both New and Old World camelids are uniquely adapted to the extremely hot and dry climates of African-Asian territories and to the high altitude cold and hypoxic environment of the whole Andean area. In order to investigate the potential association between these particular adaptations and mitochondrial aerobic energy production, we examined the camelid genes of cytochrome c oxidase subunits I, II, and III and the replacement of amino acids inferred. We found that all subunits had undergone a number of replacements in sites otherwise conserved in other cetartiodactyls. Changes of COXI and COXIII were mainly located in the transmembrane helices of proteins. For COXII, although most of the changes did not occur in sites directly involved in electron transfer, a shift of D by T at 115 position of Old World camelid might modify electrostatic interactions with cytochrome c. COXII also showed an increased relative evolutionary rate respect to other cetartiodactyls compared.The relationship between building materials, structures and climate is complex and there is an urgent need for more accurate methods to assess building performance. For example, the lifetime of wooden cladding is strongly dependent on the local-level climatic impact. A national map of the potential for decay in wood structures in Norway is presented based on Scheffer's climate index formula. Weather data are used from 115 observing stations for the reference 30-year period 1961-90. The climate index distribution allows for geographically differentiated guidelines on protective measures. Detailed scenarios for climate change for selected locations in Norway are used to provide an indication of the possible future development of decay rates. Climate indices allowing for the quantitative assessment of building enclosure performance may be an important element in the development of adaptation measures to meet the future risks of climate change in different parts of the world. Established quantified relations between climatic impact and material behaviour or building performance can be used as a tool for the evaluation of the need for changes in functional requirements. The presented work represents an example of a first step towards such measures. Ways to improve the reliability of the index further are also suggested.This paper describes two case studies of demand-side water management in the Okanagan region of southern British Columbia, Canada. The case studies reveal important lessons about how local context shapes the process of adaptation; in these cases, adaptation to rising and changing water demand under a regime of increasingly limited supply in a semi-arid region. Both case studies represent examples of water meter implementation, specifically volume-based pricing in a residential area and as a compliance tool in a mainly farming district. While the initiative was successful in the residential setting, agricultural metering met with stiff resistance. These cases suggest many factors shape the character of the adaptation process, including: interpretation of the signal relative to context, newness of the approach, consumer values
, and local and provincial political agendas. Although context has been explored in resource management circles, thus far climate change adaptation research has not adequately discussed the embeddedness of adaptation. In other words, how context matters and what aspects of context, unrelated to climate change, could encourage or thwart the act of adapting. This study is a simple illustration of the potential drivers, barriers and enabling factors that have influenced the adaptation process of water management decisions in the Okanagan.The growth performances, phenological and pomological characteristics of four loquat (Eriobotrya japonica) cultivars, 'Kanro', 'Baffico', 'Dr. Trabut', and 'Gold Nugget', were studied between 1996 and 2000 in the Mediterranean climate in Kirikhan, Hatay, Turkey. Among the loquat cultivars tested, the biggest trunk diameter and annual shoot growths were measured in 'Kanto' whereas 'Baffico' was found to be the earliest, and 'Kanro' to be the latest ripening cultivar. The largest fruit size was obtained from 'Dr. Trabut', whereas the smallest fruit size from 'Baffico'. 'Dr. Trabut' had the highest seed number and seed weight, and the lowest value of the flesh/seed ratio was calculated in this cultivar. The ratio of flesh to seed was highest in 'Kanro'. The highest total soluble solids (TSS) content was observed in 'Baffico' (11.77%), whereas the lowest TSS was recorded in 'Kanto' (9.09%). The results suggest that these cultivars can be successfully grown in a Mediterranean climate. Adaptation of the cultivars to the region is also most likely to increase the production and quality of loquat.For over a decade, the scientific community and park professionals have recognized that climate change will have critical implications for park conservation policy and management (International Union for Conservation of Nature, 1993; Welch, 2005). The implications of global climate change for nature-based park tourism has only recently begun to be assessed. Nature-based tourism and related outdoor recreation are strongly influenced by climate. Climate can affect the physical resources that define the foundation of many tourism and recreation activities as well as the length and quality of tourism and recreation seasons. Any changes in the length and quality of tourism and recreation operating seasons brought about by changes in the climate would have considerable implications for visitation and related aspects of park management Canada's national parks are a major resource for nature-based tourism, with approximately 16 million person visits in 2003. Visitation to Canada's national parks is highly seasonal and greatly affected by the country's regional climates. This paper examined the potential impact of climate change on the annual number of visitors and the seasonal pattern of visitation in Canada's national parks. Multivariate regression analysis using four climate variables and monthly visitation data for 1996 to 2003 was used to develop a monthly climate-visitation model for 15 high-visitation parks. Each park-specific model was then run with two climate change scenarios to assess potential changes in park visitation under a range of climatic conditions projected for the 2020s, 2050s and 2080s. Results indicate that Canada's national parks could experience an increase in visitors under climate change due to a lengthen
ed and improved warm-weather tourism season. In the 2020s, overall visitation levels were projected to increase 6% to 8%, with a number of parks projected to experience larger increases (+12% to 30%). The largest increases in visitation occur during the spring and fall months. Visitation was projected to increase between 9% and 29% system-wide in the 2050s and between 10% and 41% in the 2080s. Perhaps more importantly, the affects of climate change will be combined with other factors influencing park visitation in the future. When the potential affects of climate change were combined with those of demographic change (population, ageing and ethnic diversity) total person visits for the mid-2020s were projected to be at least three times greater (+20% to 23%) than that projected under climate change alone. If these findings are indicative of the impacts of climate change on future visitation, the implications for tourism and park management are substantive. Management implications of the findings include a probable need for more intensive visitor management strategies, especially in parks where visitor increases could significantly stress natural resources or lead to the escalation of conflicts among user groups. Although the primary focus of climate change adaptation within Parks Canada has thus far been the maintenance of ecological integrity, this research suggests that changes in visitor management strategies will be a required component in the development of Parks Canada's climate change adaptation framework.Most European assessments of climate change impacts have been carried out on sectors and ecosystems, providing a narrow understanding of what climate change really means for society. Furthermore, the main focus has been on technological adaptations, with less attention paid to the process of climate change adaptation. In this article, we present and analyze findings from recent studies on climate change impacts, vulnerability, and adaptation in Norway, with the aim of identifying the wider social impacts of climate change. Three main lessons can be drawn. First, the potential thresholds and indirect effects may be more important than the direct, sectoral effects. Second, highly sensitive sectors, regions, and communities combine with differential social vulnerability to create both winners and losers. Third, high national levels of adaptive capacity mask the barriers and constraints to adaptation, particularly among those who are most vulnerable to climate change. Based on these results, we question complacency in Norway and other European countries regarding climate change impacts and adaptation. We argue that greater attention needs to be placed on the social context of climate change impacts and on the processes shaping vulnerability and adaptation.Over the past few decades, four distinct and largely independent research and policy communities-disaster risk reduction, climate change adaptation, environmental management and poverty reduction-have been actively engaged in reducing socio-economic vulnerability to natural hazards. However, despite the significant efforts of these communities, the vulnerability of many individuals and communities to natural hazards continues to increase considerably. In particular, it is hydro-meteorological hazards that affect an increasing number of people and cause increasingly large economic loss
es. Arising from the realisation that these four communities have been largely working in isolation and enjoyed only limited success in reducing vulnerability, there is an emerging perceived need to strengthen significantly collaboration and to facilitate learning and information exchange between them. This article examines key communalities and differences between the climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction communities, and proposes three exercises that would help to structure a multi-community dialogue and learning process.This paper examines the topic of financing adaptation in future climate change policies. A major question is whether adaptation in developing countries should be financed under the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), or whether funding should come from other sources. We present an overview of financial resources and propose the employment of a two-track approach: one track that attempts to secure climate change adaptation funding under the UNFCCC; and a second track that improves mainstreaming of climate risk management in development efforts. Developed countries would need to demonstrate much greater commitment to the funding of adaptation measures if the UNFCCC were to cover a substantial part of the costs. The mainstreaming of climate change adaptation could follow a risk management path, particularly in relation to disaster risk reduction. 'Climate-proofing' of development projects that currently do not consider climate and weather risks could improve their sustainability.Community-based disaster preparedness (CBDP) approaches are increasingly important elements of vulnerability reduction and disaster management strategies. They are associated with a policy trend that values the knowledge and capacities of local people and builds on local resources, including social capital. CBDP may be instrumental not only in formulating local coping and adaptation strategies, but also in situating them within wider development planning and debates. In theory, local people can be mobilised to resist unsustainable (vulnerability increasing) forms of development or livelihood practices and to raise local concerns more effectively with political representatives. This paper focuses on the potential of CBDP initiatives to alleviate vulnerability in the context of climate change, and their limitations. It presents evidence from the Philippines that, in the limited forms in which they are currently employed, CBDP initiatives have the potential both to empower and disempower, and warns against treating CBDP as a panacea to disaster management problems.The changing climate will impact infrastructure through gradual changes in weather patterns, increasing variability and potential increases in extremes. Although most concerns have focused on changing extremes, the changes in day-to-day weathering processes may be equally important. These significant day-to-day weathering processes include wind-driven rain, freeze-thaw cycles, frost penetration, wetting and drying, wind-driven abrasive materials, the action of broad spectrum solar radiation and ultraviolet (UV) radiation, and atmospheric chemical deposition on materials. Adaptation options need to be developed to consider changing weathering processes, including more frequent freeze-thaw cycles in colder regions, potentially increased atmosphe
ric chemical deposition, initially increasing UV levels and changes to precipitation regimes. Since buildings are particularly vulnerable to weathering impacts that compromise their durability and resilience to extremes over time, it will become increasingly important in future to ensure that building envelopes and enclosures are able to resist wind actions and to prevent moisture from entering the structure. Many of the required adaptation actions may take the form of different formulations for materials or different engineering practices to ensure greater durability or requirements in standards for preventative maintenance.Several signs indicate an ongoing global warming and scenarios show that the warming will continue. According to climate change scenarios the annual temperature in Sweden will increase by 2.5-4.5 degrees C in the next century. In most of Sweden the annual precipitation will increase by 5-30% in the next century. The expected sea level increase is ca 1-2 mm/year. In the south of Sweden this will result in an increased coastal sea level of approximately 0.5 in in less than 100 years. Erosion along coastal areas will increase due to changes in the sea water level, storm-waves and by wind itself. Erosion in open watercourse areas will increase due to increased water flows. Rough calculations have been done, as a first estimate, of the impact of increased precipitation on hillside slide risks. Reduced safety, for all types of hillsides included in this investigation, is to be expected. Additional risks such as the higher frequency of mudflows due to increased precipitation are expected. Along rivers there is often industrial activity and contaminated ground due to historical industrial activities. Increased ground water levels will make many of the soil pollutants more movable and possibly more biologically available. The leaching of eutrophic species from farming will increase due to increased water flows, especially under heavy rainfalls. An important influence of the increased precipitation is the leaching conditions of landfills. Simplistic predictions show that the percolation and thereby the leaching of pollutants will increase.The methods, tools and outputs of the UK Climate Impacts Programme (UKCIP) show how building adaptive capacity to climate change can be embedded within a wide range of organizations. UKCIP has been operating since 1997 to support decision-makers' assessments of their vulnerability to climate change so that they can plan how to adapt. Whilst stakeholder engagement is now generally regarded as vital to ensure that research meets the needs of decision-makers for information, this usually means that stakeholders are positioned in a 'consultative' role in research. In contrast, the UKCIP aims to bridge the gap between research and policy so that decision-makers take control to produce research in ways that are useful to them. The Programme has been flexible and was developed incrementally, with increased scientific understanding, taking advantage of collaborative funding and facilitating long-standing partnerships. Whilst the core framework of scenarios and tools has been developed centrally, most studies have been stakeholder-funded and led. The Programme's results suggest that if decision-makers are supported, capacity is built for assessments, and crucially, research outputs are directly applica
ble to their ongoing work and strategic planning. This capacity-building has worked across scales and sectors and is an effective route to mainstreaming climate change adaptation. The implication, therefore, is that more support should be given by funding agencies to develop institutional capacity to support adaptation to climate change in both the private and public sectors.There is growing interest in the potential role that insurance-related instruments can play in the implementation of climate-change adaptation, particularly for the areas most affected and least able to absorb the negative effects of extreme weather events. Sufficient climate adaptation efforts will require funding at two or three orders of magnitude above the current levels. For rapid-onset climate events, current ex post disaster finance does not offer strong incentives for risk reduction. This article suggests that insurance-related instruments can be a tool to help in adapting to and ameliorating the negative impacts of climate change for those countries likely to be most negatively affected by climate change. One possibility for an insurance-related mechanism would be a scheme that allows countries (or regions in large developing countries) most affected by climate change to purchase insurance-like coverage for defined climate-related risks. This article refers to such a scheme as the Climate Change Finance Mechanism (CCFM). The attempt to design and implement such an insurance-related mechanism requires careful consideration of several issues, including technical and political challenges. We outline a way to indemnify countries that are likely to suffer most from global climate change and consider what the key design elements would be.Although the potential impacts of climate change on tourism has been examined with respect to tourism destinations and resorts there is a dearth of information on the attitudes and behaviours of small firm entrepreneurs even though such enterprises make up by far the bulk of the tourism industry by number of businesses. The attitudes and adaptation and mitigation behaviours of New Zealand entrepreneurs towards climate change is reported in a longitudinal qualitative study of 43 rural tourism businesses. Climate change was regarded as potentially significant in the future but in the short-term ranked well below other business concerns. Significantly, where enterprises had been affected by extreme weather events attitudes and behaviours towards climate change differed markedly from those unaffected, although opposition to regulatory approaches with respect to climate change continued. Overall, adaptation rather than mitigation appeared to be the favoured strategies of tourism businesses.It is widely acknowledged that promoting the long-term sustainability of rural areas requires an assessment of their capacity to handle stress from a host of external and internal factors such as resource depletion, global trading agreements, service reductions and changing demographics, to name but some. The sustainability literature includes a number of approaches for conducting capacity evaluations but is sparse regarding effective methods and empirical examples. This article provides one approach for assessing community capacity and gives results from its application to a specific Canadian rural community. The authors use general capacity variable
s and indicators to focus on a particular stress, namely impacts from climate change, and on one type of capacity, namely the capacity to adapt (to such climatic change). A basic framework and profiling tool ('amoeba') for describing the resources underlying community adaptive capacity are offered. The researchers provide a set of indicators reflecting social, human, institutional, natural and economic resources and relate them to climate change adaptation at the community level. Although the indicators cannot be replicated exactly for other rural communities, the essentials of the framework and the profiling tool can. In fact it is hoped that the ideas and example found in this article will encourage researchers to enhance and improve on the methods and results for work on community capacity.Climate change is a major issue for all levels of government, global, national and local. Local authorities' responses to climate change have tended to concentrate on their role in reducing greenhouse gases. However, the scientific consensus is that we also need to adapt to unavoidable climate change. Spatial planning at a local level has a critical anticipatory role to play in promoting robust adaptation. This paper reviews the shift in local authorities' planning policies for climate change adaptation in the UK since 2000, and provides evidence of underlying attitudes amongst planning professionals to climate change. It shows that, while the issue of climate change is becoming recognized with respect to flood risk, the wider implications (for instance, for biodiversity and water resources) are not yet integrated into plans. The reasons for this lie in lack of political support and lack of engagement of the planning profession with climate change networks. But the paper also argues there are difficulties in acknowledging the need for adaptation at the local level, with the short-term horizons of local plans at odds with perceptions of the long-term implications of climate change.Low-chill peach (Prunus persica L. Batsch) cultivars adapted for subtropical climates and tropical highlands have been developed by the University of Florida deciduous fruit breeding program. Cultivars requiring approximately 100 to 150 chill units have been evaluated in south Florida and Puerto Rico. Chilling has been accomplished in Florida by changing latitude and in Puerto Rico by changing altitude. Four cultivars (Flordaprince, TropicBeauty, Flordaglo, UFGold) have been evaluated in two localities of the central mountainous region of Puerto Rico. Parameters of tree growth, flowering time and formation, fruit development, and fruit quality have been evaluated. Preliminary results show trees fruit with commercial crops maturing in April and May with fruit 5 to 8 cm diameter weighing 80 to 130 gram during an optimum market window when there are no other peaches available. Three of the four low-chill peach cultivars are adapted to climatic conditions prevailing in the central mountainous region of Puerto Rico. The recommended cultivars are high quality and suitable for commercial, u-pick, and home planting.A breeding program was initiated in Pelotas, Brazil, in the late 1950s to develop peaches adapted to the mild winter and high relative humidity conditions. The program has evaluated and crossed a wide range of local and foreign accessions. During the first years the main 
goal was the extension of the 15-day-only harvest season and the cultivars released from the program extended this period to more than 90 days. Pronounced tip in fruits was also a problem, not present in the recently introduced cultivars. Presently, the priorities of the program are: 1) Climate adaptation. 2) Resistance to brown rot and bacterial spot: 'Bolinha' and some of its selections by open pollinations, and a few others are among the less susceptible to Monilinia fructicola, whereas selections 'Conserva 930', 'Cascata 1020' and the old cultivar 'Cristal Taquari' show some resistance to bacterial spot and are being extensively used for cross breeding. 3) Fruit size: 'Granada', 'Maciel' and 'Santa Aurea' and several selections represent one step ahead towards this objective. 4) Overall quality with emphasis on flavor. 5) Productivity: newer cultivars and selections can produce from 20 to 30 tons/ha, depending on the soil and orchard management. 6) Time of ripening, with emphasis on early ripening. The need to decompose CO2 emission intensity is predicated upon the need for effective climate change mitigation and adaptation policies. Such analysis enables key variables that instigate CO2 emission intensity to be identified while at the same time providing opportunities to verify the mitigation and adaptation capacities of countries. However, Most CO2 decomposition analysis has been conducted for the developed economics and little attention has been paid to sub-Saharan Africa. The need for such an analysis for SSA is overwhelming for several reasons. Firstly, the region is amongst the most vulnerable to climate change. Secondly, there are disparities in the amount and composition of energy consumption and the levels of economic growth and development in the region. Thus, a decomposition analysis of CO2, emission intensity for SSA affords the opportunity to identify key influencing variables and to see how they compare among countries in the region. Also, attempts have been made to distinguish between oil and non-oil-producing SSA countries. To this effect a comparative static analysis Of CO2 emission intensity for oil-producing and non oil-producing SSA countries for the periods 1971-1998 has been undertaken, using the refined Laspeyres decomposition model. Our analysis confirms the findings for other regions that CO2 emission intensity is attributable to energy consumption intensity, CO2 emission coefficient of energy types and economic structure. Particularly, CO2 emission coefficient of energy use was found to exercise the most influence on CO2, emission intensity for both oil and non-oil-producing sub-Saharan African countries in the first sub-interval period of our investigation from 1971-1981. In the second subinterval of 1981-1991, energy intensity and structural effect were the two major influencing factors on emission intensity for the two groups of countries. However, energy intensity effect had the most pronounced impact on CO, emission intensity in non-oil-producing sub-Saharan African countries, while the structural effect explained most of the increase in CO2 emission intensity among the oil-producing countries. Finally, for the period 1991-1998. structural effect accounted for much of the decrease in intensity among non-oil-producers, while CO2 emission coefficient of energy use was the major force driving the decrease a
mong oil-producing countries. The dynamic changes in the CO2 emission intensity and energy intensity effects for the two groups of countries suggest that fuel switching had been predominantly towards more carbon-intensive production in oil-producing countries and less carbon-intensive production in non-oil-producing SSA countries. In addition to the decomposition analysis, the article discusses policy implications of the results. We hope that the information and analyses provided here would help inform national energy and climate policy makers in SSA of the relative weaknesses and possible areas of strategic emphasis in their planning processes for mitigating the effects of climate change. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The extent and timing of cost-reducing improvements in low-carbon energy systems are important sources of uncertainty in future levels of greenhouse-gas emissions. Models that assess the costs of climate change mitigation policy, and energy policy in general, rely heavily on learning curves to include technology dynamics. Historically, no energy technology has changed more dramatically than photovoltaics (PV), the cost of which has declined by a factor of nearly 100 since the 1950s. Which changes were most important in accounting for the cost reductions that have occurred over the past three decades? Are these results consistent with the notion that learning from experience drove technical change? In this paper, empirical data are assembled to populate a simple model identifying the most important factors affecting the cost of PV. The results indicate that learning from experience, the theoretical mechanism used to explain learning curves, only weakly explains change in the most important factors-plant size, module efficiency, and the cost of silicon. Ways in which the consideration of a broader set of influences, such as technical barriers, industry structure, and characteristics of demand, might be used to inform energy technology policy are discussed. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Energy crops currently contribute a relatively small proportion to the total energy produced from biomass each year, but the proportion is set to grow over the next few decades. This paper reviews the current status of energy crops and their conversion technologies, assesses their potential to contribute to global energy demand and climate mitigation over the next few decades, and examines the future prospects. Previous estimates have suggested a technical potential for energy crops of similar to 400 EJ yr(-1) by 2050. In a new analysis based on energy crop areas for each of the IPCC SRES scenarios in 2025 (as projected by the IMAGE 2.2 integrated assessment model), more conservative dry matter and energy yield estimates and an assessment of the impact on non-CO2 greenhouse gases were used to estimate the realistically achievable potential for energy crops by 2025 to be between 2 and 22 EJ yr(-1), which will offset similar to 100-2070 Mt CO2-eq. yr(-1). These results suggest that additional production of energy crops alone is not sufficient to reduce emissions to meet a 550 mu mol mol(-1) atmospheric CO2 stabilization trajectory, but is sufficient to form an important component in a portfolio of climate mitigation measures, as well as to provide a significant sustainable energy resource to displace fossil fuel resource
s. Realizing the potential of energy crops will necessitate optimizing the dry matter and energy yield of these crops per area of land through the latest biotechnological routes, with or without the need for genetic modification. In future, the co-benefits of bioenergy production will need to be optimized and methods will need to be developed to extract and refine high-value products from the feedstock before it is used for energy production.Production and use of energy is the main source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in developed countries. In the Baltic States, climate change mitigation policies and measures implemented have been driven mainly by efforts to reach EU accession standards, and all EU environmental directives relating to the energy sector have now been implemented. This has had a significant impact on the reduction of GHG emissions. This article presents a comparative review of the general framework for climate change mitigation in the energy sector of the Baltic States. It compares and analyses measures already implemented in the three countries - legal, fiscal and voluntary - and market based tools to reduce GHG emissions, and evaluates the impact of EU environmental and energy directives on the reduction of GHG emissions. Some descriptive sections of the article come from the Nordic Council of Ministers study "Challenges of Kyoto commitments for the Baltic States' energy sectors".In this paper we discuss long-term least cost CO2 stabilization scenarios based on the SRES AIM A1B scenario in the context of an international burden-sharing regime. Starting from a stabilization target, regional emission caps are formulated dynamically on the basis of past emissions. With these regional caps, the cost-optimal supply fuel mix in the energy sector in the four SRES world regions is calculated, and lower bounds on the volume of traded carbon are estimated. The allocation scheme provides incentives for early mitigation action. We estimate additional regional costs incurred by the allocation scheme, and assess the sensitivity of results to changes in the concentration ceiling, discount rates, and start date for burden sharing. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Security of energy supply and climate change are central concerns for policy makers and important dimensions of the long-term quest for a sustainable global energy system. This paper examines the role of several policy instruments in managing energy security and climate risks and stimulating technological change towards a more secure and climate-benign global energy system in the long-term future. The analysis has been conducted with ERIS, a multi-regional energy-systems "bottom-up" optimization model with technology learning. Our analysis provides some policy insights and identifies synergies and trade-offs relating to the potential for security of supply policies to promote the uptake of new technologies, reduce the cost of pursuing climate change mitigation policies, and facilitate a possible transition to a hydrogen economy. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Institutional barriers and bridges to local climate change impacts adaptation affecting small rural municipalities and Conservation Authorities (CAs are watershed agencies) in Eastern Ontario (Canada) are examined, and elements of a community-based adaptation strategy related to water infrastructu
res are proposed as a case-study in community adaptation to climate change. No general water scarcity is expected for the region even under unusually dry weather scenarios. Localized quantity and quality problems are likely to occur especially in groundwater recharge areas. Some existing institutions can be relied on by municipalities to build an effective adaptation strategy based on a watershed/region perspective, on their credibility, and on their expertise. Windows of opportunity or framing issues are offered at the provincial level, the most relevant one in a federal state, by municipal emergency plan requirements and pending watershed source water protection legislation. Voluntary and soon to be mandated climate change mitigation programs at the federal level are other ones.As the European Union greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (ETS) is emerging, it seems interesting to look back on previous experiments and to bring together a few elements of reflection about the pertinence of ETS as a new policy tool to regulate industrial pollution. So far, several regulatory tools have been used to decrease pollution. This article focuses on two of them, command-and-control (CAC) and ETS. There is no simple answer to which one is more efficient. It depends strongly on the context. Given a few elements outlined in this paper, the choice of an ETS to abate industrial emissions of greenhouse gases in the European Union (EU) can be considered pertinent. But, ultimately, what makes a scheme environmentally efficient is not the tool in itself (ETS or CAC) but the ambition of the target. Hence the design of the National Allocation Plans setting the emission caps are of paramount importance. They will make the EU ETS either a useless mess or an effective climate change mitigation policy tool. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Over 250 respondents - graduate students in law and public policy - assessed the risks of climate change and valued climate-change mitigation policies. Many aspects of their behavior were consistent with rational behavior. For example, respondents successfully estimated distributions of temperature increases in Boston by 2100. The median value of best estimates was 1-3 degrees Fahrenheit. In addition, people with higher risk estimates, whether for temperature or related risks (e.g., hurricane intensities) offered more to avoid warming. Median willingness to pay (WTP) to avoid global warming was $0.50/gallon, and 3% of income. And important scope tests (e.g., respondents paid more for bigger accomplishments) were passed. However, significant behavioral propensities also emerged. For example, accessibility of neutral information on global warming boosted risk estimates. Warming projections correlated with estimates for unrelated risks, such as earthquakes and heart attacks. The implied WTP for avoidance was much greater when asked as a percent of income than as a gas tax, a percent thinking bias. Home team betting showed itself; individuals predicting a Bush victory predicted smaller temperature increases. In the climate-change arena, behavioral decision tendencies are like a fun-house mirror: They magnify some estimates and shrink others, but the contours of rational decision rmain recognizable.This paper extends the arguments surrounding carbon lock-in elaborated in Unruh (Energy Policy 28 (2000) 817; 30 (2002) 317) t
o countries currently undergoing industrialization. it argues that, for numerous reasons, industrializing countries are unlikely to leapfrog carbon intensive energy development. On the contrary, carbon lock-in may be globalizing and could further constrain climate change mitigation options. It is then argued that many policy recommendations ignore carbon lock-in, possibly limiting their potential for successful implementation. The paper then discusses four policy approaches that appear to have advantages given lock-in conditions. It is recognized, however, that relative ease of implementation does not necessarily equate with superiority. Instead, it is merely a path dependent outcome of past development decisions. Pursuing policies on the basis of relative implementation ease may help address the issue of climate change, but could also result in sub-optimal outcomes along other dimensions of sustainable development. (c) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.Forest environmental conditions are affected by climate change, but investments in forest environmental quality can be used as part of the climate change mitigation strategy. A key question involving the potential use of forests to store more carbon as part of climate change mitigation is the impact of forest investments on the timing and quantity of forest volumes that affect carbon storage. Using an economic optimization model, we project levels of U.S. forest volumes as indicators of carbon storage for a wide range of private forest investment scenarios. Results show that economic opportunities exist to further intensify timber management on some hectares and reduce the average timber rotation length such that the national volume of standing timber stocks could be reduced relative to projections reflecting historical trends. The national amount of timber volume is projected to increase over the next 50 yr, but then is projected to decline if private owners follow an economic optimization path, such as with more forest type conversions and shorter timber rotations. With perfect foresight, future forest investments can affect current timber harvest levels, with intertemporal linkages based on adjustments through markets. Forest investments that boost regenerated timber yields per hectare would act to enhance ecosystem services (e.g., forest carbon storage) if they are related to the rate of growth and extent of growing stock inventory.We explored the climate impacts for two land-use change scenarios, aimed at mitigating the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Using the integrated assessment model IMAGE 2.2, we found that the large-scale implementation in the extratropics of either carbon-sequestration or modern-biomass plantations decreases the CO2 concentration with 70-80 ppmv by the year 2100 compared to a nonmitigation baseline. In a coupled land/atmosphere/ocean/sea-ice model this moderates global warming over the 21st century by 10%. However, the carbon-sequestration option raises the absorption of solar radiation due to a lower albedo compared to the scenario involving modern-biomass plantations (for biofuels production). The albedo-induced difference in global mean temperature is as large as the mitigation by CO2 changes in the two scenarios compared to the baseline. Further, an atmospheric circulation change in the carbon-plantation scenario weakens the supply of moisture 
from the oceans to North Africa and central Eurasia. In our model this decreases annual mean precipitation over North Africa by up to 10% and further increases summer temperatures over Eurasia. These findings lead us to conclude that other climate impacts than just CO2 changes have to be taken into account when discussing climate-change mitigation options that involve land-use changes.Slowing tropical deforestation can reduce global carbon emissions and prevent climate change. This article estimates the costs of preserving the carbon sequestration and storage services of tropical forests in the Philippines, and compares the costs of this approach to mitigating climate change with the costs of alternative abatement options in the developed world. Unlike most previous studies, the analysis estimates costs based on opportunity costs and includes non-market activities such as subsistence agriculture. The analysis finds that while the opportunity costs for the Philippines are significant, countries like the U.S. may find paying the Philippines for forest conservation to be a cost-efficient alternative to reducing emissions within their own borders. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Land use plays a vital role in the earth system: it links human decision-making to the terrestrial environment and is both driver and target of global environmental changes. However, decisions about how much land to use where and for what purpose (and the related consequences) are still poorly understood. This deficit is in contrast to the fundamental need for global analysis of future land-use change to answer pressing questions concerning, e.g. future food security, biodiversity and climate mitigation and adaptation. In this review, we identify major achievements, deficits and potentials of existing continental to global scale land-use modeling approaches by contrasting current knowledge on land-use change processes and its implementation in models. To compare the 18 selected modeling approaches and their applications, we use the integration of geographic and economic modeling approaches as a guiding principle. Geographic models focus on the development of spatial patterns of land-use types by analyzing land suitability and spatial interaction. Beyond, they add information about fundamental constraints on the supply side. Economic models focus on drivers of land-use change on the demand side, starting out from certain preferences, motivations, market and population structures and aim to explain changes in land-intensive sectors. Integrated models seek to combine the strengths of both approaches in order to make up for their intrinsic deficits and to assess the feedbacks between terrestrial environment and the global economy. Important aspects in continental to global modeling of land use are being addressed by the reviewed models, but up to now for some of these issues no satisfying solutions have been found: this applies, e.g. to soil degradation, the availability of freshwater resources and the interactions between land scarcity and intensification of land use. For a new generation of large-scale land-use models, a transparent structure would be desirable which clearly employs the advantages of both geographic and economic modeling concepts within one consistent framework to include feedbacks and avoid redundancies. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights res
erved.For thousands of years, the Huang-Hai Plain in northeast China has been one of the most productive agricultural regions of the country. The future of this region will be determined in large part by how global climatic changes impact regional conditions and by actions taken to mitigate or adapt to climate change impacts. One potential mitigation strategy is to promote management practices that have the potential to sequester carbon in the soils. The IPCC estimates that 40 Pg of C could be sequestered in cropland soils worldwide over the next several decades; however, changes in global climate may impact this potential. Here, we assess the potential for soil C sequestration with conversion of a conventional till (CT) continuous wheat system to a wheat-corn double cropping system and by implementing no till (NT) management for both continuous wheat and wheat-corn systems. To assess the influence of these management practices under a changing climate, we use two climate change scenarios (A2 and B2) at two time periods in the EPIC agro-ecosystent simulation model. The applied climate change scenarios are from the HadCM3 global climate model for the periods 2015-2045 and 2070-2099 which projects consistent increases in temperature and precipitation of greater than 5 degrees C and up to 300 mm by 2099. An increase in the variability of temperature is also projected and is, accordingly, applied in the simulations. The EPIC model indicates that winter wheat yields would increase on average by 0.2 Mg ha(-1) in the earlier period and by 0.8 Mg ha(-1) in the later period due to warmer nighttime temperatures and higher precipitation. Simulated yields were not significantly affected by imposed changes in crop management. Simulated soil organic C content was higher under both NT management and double cropping than under CT continuous wheat. The simulated changes in management were a more important factor in SOC changes than the scenario of climate change. Soil C sequestration rates for continuous wheat systems were increased by an average of 0.4 Mg ha(-1) year(-1) by NT in the earlier period and by 0.2 Mg ha(-1) year(-1) in the later period. With wheat-corn double cropping, NT increased sequestration rates by 0.8 and 0.4 Mg ha(-1) year(-1) for the earlier and later periods, respectively. The total C offset due to a shift from CT to NT under continuous wheat over 16 million hectares in the Huang-Hai Plain is projected to reach 240 Tg C in the earlier period and 180 Tg C in the later period. Corresponding C offsets for wheat-corn cropping are 675-495 Tg C. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Six Earth system models of intermediate complexity that are able to simulate interaction between atmosphere, ocean, and land surface, were forced with a scenario of land cover changes during the last millennium. In response to historical deforestation of about 18 million sq km, the models simulate a decrease in global mean annual temperature in the range of 0.13-0.25 degrees C. The rate of this cooling accelerated during the 19th century, reached a maximum in the first half of the 20th century, and declined at the end of the 20th century. This trend is explained by temporal and spatial dynamics of land cover changes, as the effect of deforestation on temperature is less pronounced for tropical than for temperate regions, and reforestation in the northern 
temperate areas during the second part of the 20th century partly offset the cooling trend. In most of the models, land cover changes lead to a decline in annual land evapotranspiration, while seasonal changes are rather equivocal because of spatial shifts in convergence zones. In the future, reforestation might be chosen as an option for the enhancement of terrestrial carbon sequestration. Our study indicates that biogeophysical mechanisms need to be accounted for in the assessment of land management options for climate change mitigation.Climate change and spatial planning are connected in two ways. On the one hand, spatial planning can contribute to mitigating climate change, i.e. to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, spatial planning also plays an important role in the adaptation to climate change impacts. This article examines by the example of Germany the potential role regional and land-use planning can play in climate change mitigation and adaptation.Present woodfuel usage in Britain is negligible. Historically, Britain has been fortunate in having abundant coal, oil and gas. At an EU level, biomass is seen as an important element of energy, environment and agriculture/forestry policy. In the European context, biomass is taken to include agricultural and industrial wastes in addition to forest woodfuel, and it is regarded as a potential source of heat, fuels and electricity. In the UK, energy policy as a whole is based on four considerations-environment, energy reliability and security, affordability for the poorest in society and competitive pricing for businesses, industries and households. Within UK policy, the dominant driver for greater use of biomass as a renewable source of energy is climate change mitigation; energy security is an emerging driver; all other potential benefits of biomass as a renewable resource are of limited significance. At the moment, the UK focus is narrower than in Europe. National targets are set only for electricity generation. Furthermore, expansion of energy crops, which are defined in the major regulations as 'crops planted since 1989 and grown primarily for the purpose of being used as a fuel' and, therefore, do not include material from extant forests, is seen as the main way to ensure energy security and minimise carbon expended to transport the raw material to the point of end use. Nevertheless, woody biomass from forests, sawmills, urban areas and transportation corridors is already available in vastly greater quantities than 'energy crops'. At a regional and local scale, global environmental issues are of lower relative importance and a much wider range of potential benefits tend to be taken into consideration. For example, the economic benefits of woodfuel heating in areas without connections to the gas grid have been an important consideration in the steady increase in woodheat developments. In other areas where there is a less obvious financial driver, rural development is a powerful determinant of support for woodfuel projects. Crown Copyright (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.So far, climate change mitigation pathways focus mostly on CO2 and a limited number of climate targets. Comprehensive studies of emission implications have been hindered by the absence of a flexible method to generate multi-gas emissions pathways, user-definable in sh
ape and the climate target. The presented method 'Equal Quantile Walk' (EQW) is intended to fill this gap, building upon and complementing existing multi-gas emission scenarios. The EQW method generates new mitigation pathways by 'walking along equal quantile paths' of the emission distributions derived from existing multi-gas IPCC baseline and stabilization scenarios. Considered emissions include those of CO2 and all other major radiative forcing agents (greenhouse gases, ozone precursors and sulphur aerosols). Sample EQW pathways are derived for stabilization at 350 ppm to 750 ppm CO2 concentrations and compared to WRE profiles. Furthermore, the ability of the method to analyze emission implications in a probabilistic multi-gas framework is demonstrated. The probability of overshooting a 2 degrees C climate target is derived by using different sets of EQW radiative forcing peaking pathways. If the probability shall not be increased above 30%, it seems necessary to peak CO2 equivalence concentrations around 475 ppm and return to lower levels after peaking (below 400 ppm). EQW emissions pathways can be applied in studies relating to Article 2 of the UNFCCC, for the analysis of climate impacts, adaptation and emission control implications associated with certain climate targets. See www.simcap.org for EQW-software and data.The absence of US national action oil global climate change policy has prompted initiatives by the US Congress, cities, states, and regions toward what is likely to become it long-term, collaborative effort to harmonize national energy and climate policies. This upward evolution in the face of it reluctant administration is historically consistent with the development of national legislation on other environmental and social issues in the US. At the heart of this movement is the need to resolve conflicts between high-intensity use of low-cost fossil energy Supplies, and the dominating impact of carbon dioxide emissions oil global climate change. US states are among the largest carbon dioxide emitters in the world and play a critical role in supplying and transforming energy, its well as consuming it, for economic advantage. State governments are also likely to have to shoulder some of the cost of potentially extensive climate damages and bear the brunt of the cost of implementing future federal mandates. As a result, many are taking proactive stances oil the development of climate mitigation policy to prepare for, accelerate, and/or guide national policy. As US states show leadership on addressing greenhouse gas emissions, they also play an important role in forging policies and measures that reduce economic conflict between energy and climate goals. A number have launched or completed greenhouse gas mitigation plans and other major policies in the past few years that address these conflicts through: (1) finding ways to reduce mitigation costs, including the use of incentive-based policy instruments; (2) promoting ail open and democratic policy process that includes major stakeholders; (3) promoting equity across socioeconomic groups, regions, and generations; and (4) promoting interregional cooperation. The results are promising and suggest that the state arena for climate and energy policy is evolving quickly and constructively toward alternatives that reduce conflict. Regional efforts are also unfolding, along with gr
eater congressional attention to the lessons learned and commitments made by sub-federal actions. In the next few years many national energy and climate conflicts are likely to be tested and addressed by states. Among these, Pennsylvania is likely to be an important player due to its high profile of energy production and potential for leadership. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper presents emission scenarios for India, constructed following the IPCC SIZES framework. Analysis spans 21st century and is centered on energy sector CO2 emission. Scenario stories presume no explicit climate intervention; however differences in endogenous profiles of key drivers like technologies have profound indirect impact on GHG emissions. Across scenarios, aggregate emission trajectories vary significantly, thus proving that endogenous development choices are key determinants of emission paths. The paper therefore argues that development policies and actions, which alter profiles of key drivers of development should be essential elements of climate mitigation strategies. Scenario results show that India's per capita emission during the century would rank amongst the lowest. Stabilization at a 550 ppmv CO2 concentration would induce significant changes in energy and technology mix and economic losses in India. Stabilization burden would be lower in scenarios where underlying development paths are sustainable. The near-term energy choices, given their path dependence, could deliver sustained development and climate benefits. Aligning development and climate actions, therefore, is advisable and feasible. The regime instruments, the paper concludes, should aim to first support endogenous climate-friendly actions and then to induce climate centric actions in addition.In the context of the international market for greenhouse gas emissions, I examine applications of portfolio theory for investment decisions regarding biological carbon sequestration projects. Using ecosystem-scale eddy correlation carbon flux measurements, I show how to determine how much financial risk of carbon is diversifiable. This method allows a quantitative assessment of the potential for geographical diversification of carbon sink investments. In a case study of six ecosystems in the temperate Northern hemisphere, a significant benefit from diversification is demonstrated even among sites that seem to have broadly similar characteristics. This benefit derives in part from differences in ecosystem response to varying weather conditions and differences in ecosystem type, both of which affect the sites' covariances. In providing a quantitative common language for scientific and corporate uncertainties, the concept of carbon financial risk provides an opportunity for expanding communication between these elements essential to successful climate policy. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.As the idea of carbon capture and storage (CCS) has rapidly evolved from a relatively obscure concept to an increasingly recognized potential climate change mitigation approach that could contribute to stabilizing atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) concentrations, environmental advocacy groups have been engaged in a limited, but growing, capacity in public discussions related to carbon storage. Given the critical role that environmental advocacy groups play in shaping public perceptions o
f different potential approaches to solving environmental problems and given the recognition that public perception of CCS will influence its advancement, this paper reviews the perspectives and positions of several prominent environmental advocacy groups related to CCS. While several environmental organizations have taken strong positions in favor of biological carbon storage and against the idea of oceanic carbon storage, most environmental groups have been cautiously hesitant in their public stance and assessment of the more advanced concept of injecting captured CO2 underground into natural geologic reservoirs. Concerns that CCS may detract from efforts and funds to support increased use of other existing energy technology alternatives as well as apprehension about ill-defined risks and impacts associated with storing CO2 underground have contributed to the hesitancy to support CCS.When climate change mitigation strategies are discussed in reports such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published in 2001 (Metz et al., 2001), the authors inevitably center on reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases and, to a lesser extent, reduction in aerosol emissions such as black carbon aerosols. Reductions of carbon emissions to the atmosphere includes strategies to not only capture and store carbon emissions from, for example, coal fired power plants, but also includes strategies such as increasing energy efficiency, greater use of renewable energy sources, and greater use of fuels that do not contain carbon (such as nuclear) or are carbon-neutral. Over the next several centuries most or all of the earth's fossil fuel reserves (about 4000 Gt-C) may be consumed, with the hope that carbon capture and storage (CCS) will minimize future greenhouse gas emissions to levels that are not dangerous to the planet. However, as discussed in this paper, it may not be possible for repositories to reliably store the massive amounts of carbon generated without imposing environmental risks. Further, while control of global warming is of immediate concern, possibilities of other types of climate change exist. Abrupt changes could be triggered that, for example, might reduce the deep North Atlantic circulation and produce a cooling over much of the earth. Second, the earth has been in an interglacial warm period for over 10,000 years, and if the climate cycles observed in the previous 500,000 years continue, it is possible that the earth will return to a colder period. Ultimately, control of global cooling may be a more challenging problem than control of global warming. If reduction of greenhouse gas emissions turns out not to be the complete solution to climate change mitigation requirements (which may involve both warming and cooling periods), what is? In this paper, earth-based and space-based techniques are explored that are designed to supplement greenhouse gas reduction approaches. While the strategies presented here may be futuristic and expensive, they do provide us with an outlook on controlling global climate change that may spawn ideas for other mitigation techniques. General design considerations are presented based on a global energy balance model to predict global temperature changes not only in response to changing greenhouse gas concentrations, but also to changing conditions in the earth system, such as the net incoming solar radia
tion or the planetary albedo. The approaches are intended to perturb the earth's energy balance in a controllable manner. Today, for example, data show that the earth is not in an equilibrium energy state. About 1.0 W/m(2) more energy is coming into the earth than is leaving, indicating that the earth is '' committed '' to this amount of global warming and its attendant consequences, even if greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere do not continue to increase. This energy imbalance is equivalent to a further warming of 0.5 degrees C to 1 degrees C, comparable to the observed global warming that has occurred over the past century. One benefit of the supplemental mitigation techniques would be to help '' uncommit '' earth from such energy imbalances, as well as to provide a basis for addressing future climate change.This article explores various opportunities for government procurement practices that could contribute to achieving the European Kyoto targets and the diffusion of innovative energy technologies. It examines the potential for conflict between 'climate-friendly' public purchasing, on the one hand, and the World Trade Organization's Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA) and the European Directives on public procurement, on the other. The main arguments put forward are, firstly, that the climate mitigation potential of government procurement is significant; and, secondly, that the potential for conflict between climate-friendly procurement and the GPA is limited because of the restricted membership and scope of this agreement. The broader scope of the EU procurement Directives arguably increases the potential for conflict, but it is shown that these rules do not hinder climate-friendly procurement if public entities specify, at an early stage, exactly what they intend to procure, and adhere to the general principles of non-discrimination and transparency. Thirdly, a problem might occur if a public entity wishes to purchase innovative products for which no standard specifications exist and for which there are only a few suppliers. Finally, it is recommended that climate-friendly procurement should be implemented to the fullest extent possible.Fossil fuel combustion is the largest source of anthropogenic greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As a result of combustion, essentially all of the fuel carbon is emitted to the atmosphere as carbon dioxide (CO2), along with small amounts of methane and, in some cases, nitrous oxide. It has been axiomatic that reducing anthropogenic GHG emissions requires reducing fossil-fuel use. However, that relationship may no longer be as highly coupled in the future. There is an emerging understanding that CO2 capture and storage (CCS) technology offers a way of using fossil fuels while reducing CO2 emissions by 85% or more. While CCS is not the 'silver bullet' that in and of itself will solve the climate change problem, it is a powerful addition to the portfolio of technologies that will be needed to address climate change. The goal of this Commentary is to describe CCS technology in simple terms: how it might be used, how it might fit into longer term mitigation strategies, and finally, the policy issues that its emergence creates. All of these topics are discussed in much greater detail in the recently published Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Ca
pture and Storage (SRCCS) (IPCC, 2005).Carbon capture and storage (CCS) could achieve drastic cuts in the CO2 emissions associated with fossil fuels in the near to medium term and has been promoted as a significant climate change mitigation option. As the profile of this family of technologies grows rapidly, there remain many uncertainties relating to its viability, effectiveness and desirability. In this paper we begin to map out some of the key issues associated with CCS, using a multi-criteria approach to explore how an (admittedly small) selection of stakeholders perceive alternative storage options and energy scenarios. We present five long-term scenarios describing alternative ways in which the UK energy system could develop and which deploy different levels of carbon storage. The key storage options considered are oil and gas fields (both disused and with enhanced oil recovery), traps in saline aquifers, saline aquifers outside traps and on-shore sites. The relative performance of the scenarios and the storage reservoirs included within them have been assessed against a set of socio-economic, technical and environmental criteria by a small selection of stakeholders to the carbon storage debate. Whilst we cannot make strong conclusions regarding precise stakeholder opinions at this stage due to the small size of the sample, the broad delineation of the arguments for and against CCS are evident. Multi-criteria assessment (MCA) appears to hold much potential as a useful tool for characterising and better understanding differences in stakeholder assessments of CCS and its implications, and for identifying options around which greater consensus on the desirability (or otherwise) of CCS as a mitigation strategy might emerge.The non-CO2 greenhouse gases have so far jointly contributed around 40 percent to overall global warming. In this paper we examine the role of non-CO2 greenhouse gases in meeting long-term climate change targets. For this purpose, we develop climate mitigation scenarios aimed at achieving long-term stabilization of global radiative forcing. We use the MESSAGE model for a thorough bottom-up representation of the six Kyoto greenhouse gases and corresponding mitigation technologies. This approach endogenizes energy feedback effects from mitigation of non-CO2 gases and takes into account the interplay and side benefits that exist across GHGs. We analyze two mitigation scenarios that stabilize global radiative forcing at 4.5 W/m(2) as compared to pre-industrial times-one allowing only for CO2 mitigation and another with multigas mitigation. In addition, we also investigate a lower stabilization level of 3 W/m(2) and look into the implications this has for abatement strategies. Our approach helps us to identify a portfolio of measures in the energy, industry and agricultural sectors for achieving a proposed climate target. We find that considering the full basket of GHGs improves the effectiveness of the mitigation portfolio resulting in significantly lower costs, especially in the short term. In the long run, the bulk of the emissions reductions are still found to come from CO2 and this effect becomes more pronounced under the more stringent climate target. This emphasizes the importance of a diverse mitigation portfolio that includes both CO2 and non-CO2 related abatement options in meeting long-term climate targets.Futur
e global warming may depend strongly on the potential for abating emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Flexibility in implementing climate change mitigation policies can significantly reduce mitigation costs and has three dimensions; space, time and gas species. Therefore, multiple greenhouse gas reduction flexibility should be considered. The emission and reduction potential of CO2 and non-CO2 GHGs are assessed here using an integrated assessment model under climate change targets. The implications on gas life as well as abatement timing uncertainty on costs, technological availability, etc. are discussed. The introduction of additional multigas reductions will cut the economic burden of achieving a given climate change target. The conclusions are threefold; (1) Multigas mitigation is a cost effective strategy compared to CO2-only mitigation under the same climate target, (2) CO2 mitigation is expected to lead to ancillary reductions in CH4, N2O and SOx emissions, and (3) There is great uncertainty in the assessment of non-CO2 GHG mitigation opportunities.This paper examines the role of climate forcing agents other than carbon dioxide using the MiniCAM integrated assessment model for both no-climate-policy and policy emissions scenarios. Non-CO2 greenhouse-gas forcing is dominated by methane and tropospheric ozone. Assumptions about the prevalence of methane recovery and local air pollution controls in the no-policy cases are a critical determinant of methane and ozone-precursor emissions. When these factors are considered, emissions are substantially reduced relative to earlier estimates. This reduces their potential as climate mitigation agents through specific climate policies. Nevertheless, the addition of non-CO2 greenhouse gas and ozone precursor abatement options significantly reduces mitigation costs in the first half of the 21(st) century (by up to 40%) compared to the case where only CO2 abatement options are pursued. While the influences of aerosols are small by the end of the century, there is a significant interaction in the early 21(st) century between policies to reduce CO2 emissions and SO2 emissions, even in the presence of SO2-related pollution control policies. The attendant reduced aerosol cooling can more than offset the reduction in warming that accrues from reduced CO2. When non-CO2 gases are included in the policy, the net effect is that global-mean climate change to 2050 is practically unaffected by mitigation policy.The projections of energy related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in the Special Report on Emission Scenarios (SRES) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) serve as point of departure for an assessment of plausible ranges of CO2 emissions that could be avoided through CO2 capture and storage measures. Scenario and time dependent, sector and fuel specific capture factors are developed for eleven world regions to estimate the proportion of CO2 resulting from fossil fuel and biomass combustion/conversion that might be practical to capture and store. The capture factors are applied to the original CO2 emissions scenarios at a highly disaggregated level. The results are summed up and presented. The results indicate that it might be possible to capture and store a significant quantity of energy related CO2, especially in the second quarter of this century. Yet the amounts of CO2 still bein
g emitted remain considerable, suggesting that other technologies will also be needed if the threat of climate change requires large reductions of CO2 emissions over the next few decades. The international handbook on integrated environmental and economic accounting (SEEA-2003) provides a detailed overview of environmental accounting approaches that have been developed in parallel with the system of national (economic) accounts. In addition to natural resource stock accounts and environmental protection expenditure accounts, SEEA-2003 pays considerable attention to physical flow accounting. Expanding the national economic accounts with physical data sets facilitates the joint analysis of environmental and economic policy issues. This article discusses the main characteristics of national accounts-oriented physical flow accounting approaches and provides an overview of the kind of indicators they may put forward. Although this article is not an attempt to provide a comprehensive review of macro-oriented physical flow accounting approaches, the analytical advantages of national accounts-oriented physical flow accounts are illustrated.If the technosphere and the biosphere are divided into cells, the presence and turnover of a substance in a study area can be summarized in a vector of stocks and a matrix of flows between different pairs of cells. Likewise the stocks and flows of several substances or materials in one or more time periods can be summarized in multidimensional data cubes. In this article, we provide a theoretical framework for handling physical flow data, and we demonstrate how a set of matrix operations can facilitate exploratory analysis and quality assessment of such data regardless of the number of substances, materials, and time periods considered. In particular, we show how matrices and cubes of flow data can be recalculated when the collection of cells is modified by joining cells, and also what information is required to recalculate flows when cells are split. Furthermore, we illustrate how and under what circumstances substance-flow data originating from different studies with different collections of cells can be compared or merged. The generic character of the given formulae facilitates the development of software for physical flow data.Sustainable management of materials and products requires continuous evaluation of numerous complex social, ecological, and economic factors. A number of tools and methods are emerging to support this. One of the most rigorous is life-cycle assessment (LCA), But LCAs often lack a sustainability perspective and bring about difficult trade-offs between specificity and depth, on the one hand, and comprehension and applicability, on the other. This article applies a framework for strategic sustainable development (often referred to as The Natural Step (TNS) framework) based on backcasting from basic principles for sustainability. The aim is to foster a new general approach to the management of materials and products, here termed "strategic life-cycle management." This includes informing the overall analysis with aspects that are relevant to a basic perspective on (1) sustainability, and (2) strategy to arrive at sustainability The resulting overview is expected to help avoid costly assessments of flows and practices that are not critical from a sustainability and/or strategic perspective 
and to help identify strategic gaps in knowledge or potential problems that need further assessment. Early experience indicates that the approach can complement some existing tools and concepts by informing them from a sustainability perspective-for example, current product development and LCA tools.As industrial ecology (IE) solidifies conceptually and methodologically, and as it gains visibility and legitimacy in academia, industry and government, it is important that the IE community periodically evaluate the status of its emerging institutional arrangements. At the same time, industrial ecologists should assess the political relations developing between the field and the larger world. We analyze four institutional criteria: professional legitimacy, viable clientele, entrepreneurial acumen, and occupational opportunities, as well as a more controversial fifth measure-political relevance. Drawing a comparison with the field of ecology, we argue that efforts to foster IE institutionally can, ironically, conflict with the objective of seeing IE become "the science and engineering of sustainability" The article concludes by reflecting on the importance of this kind of critical appraisal and on why many observers of the field remain hopeful.Contemporary cycles for copper and zinc are coanalyzed with the tools of exploratory data analysis. One-year analyses (circa 1994) are performed at three discrete spatial levelscountry (52 countries that comprise essentially all anthropogenic stocks and flows of the two metals), eight world regions, and the planet as a whole-and are completed both in absolute magnitude and in per capita terms. This work constitutes, to our knowledge, the first multiscale, muitilevel analysis of anthropogenic resources throughout their life cycles. The results demonstrate that (1) A high degree of correlation exists between country-level copper and country-level zinc rates of fabrication and manufacturing, entry into use, net addition to in-use stocks, discard, and landfilling; (2) Regional-level rates for copper and zinc cycle parameters show the same correlations as exist at country level; (3) On a per capita basis, countries add to in-use stock almost 50% more copper than zinc; (4) The predominant discard streams for copper and zinc at the global level are different for the two metals, and relative rates of different loss processes differ geographically, so that resource recovery policies must be designed from metalspecific and location-specific perspectives; (5) When absolute magnitudes of life-cycle flows are considered, the standard deviations of the data sets decrease from country level to regional level for both copper and zinc, which is not the case for the per capita data sets, where the statistical properties of the data sets for both metals approach being independent of spatial level, thus providing a basis for predicting unmeasured per capita metal flow behavior.A number of potential explanatory variables for the stocks and flows of copper and zinc in contemporary technological societies are co-analyzed with the tools of exploratory data analysis. A one-year analysis (circa 1994) is performed for 50 countries that comprise essentially all anthropogenic stocks and flows of the two metals. The results show that (1) The key explanatory variable for metal use is gross domestic product (GDP) per capita (purchasing
 power parity, PPP). By itself, GDP explains between one-third and one-half of the variance of per capita copper and zinc use. Other variables that were significantly correlated with copper and zinc use included stock of passenger cars and television sets (per 1,000 people); two infrastructure variables, wired telephone connections, urban population, and value added in manufacturing. The results do not provide evidence supporting the Kuznets curve hypothesis for these metals. (2) Metal use per capita can be estimated using multiple regression equations. For copper, the natural logarithm of use is related to the explanatory variables GDP (PPP), value added in manufacturing, and urban population. This model explains 80% of the variance among the different countries (r(2) = 0.79). The natural logarithm of zinc use is related to GDP (PPP) and value added in manufacturing with an r 2 of 0.75; (3) For both metals, rates of metal fabrication, use, net addition to stock, and discard in low- and high-income countries differ significantly from each other Our statistical analyses thus provide a basis for estimating the potential development of metal use, net addition to stock, and discard, using data on explanatory variables that are available at the international level.Three established life-cycle inventories of agricultural operations were used to generate air emissions data for soybean production: the greenhouse gases, regulated emissions, and energy use in transportation (GREET) model; the economic input-output life-cycle assessment (EIO-LCA) model; and SimaPro software equipped with the Franklin database. EIO-LCA and GREET baseline data were compared to evaluate differences in boundary definitions that apply specifically to U.S. soybean agriculture and processing, which resulted in several major findings. The DO model estimated for emissions of particulate matter less than 10 micrograms (PM10) resulting from wind erosion that were not included in GREET, but neglected indirect nitrous oxide (N2O) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from fertilizer application. DO also assumed significantly lower process energy requirements and lower volatile organic compounds (VOC) for soybean crushing and oil extraction. The GREET and SimaPro models were compared using identical boundary and assumption data, to reveal major discrepancies in fundamental assumptions of energy inventories. Key emission factors varied by several orders of magnitude for basic energy generation and combustion processes, potentially impacting results for any inventory analysis that contains significant energy consumption. The Franklin database assumed VOC and sulfur oxides (SO2) emissions more than an order of magnitude higher than GREET for all categories investigated, with significantly lower N2O and methane (CH4) emission factors.Energy budgets for agricultural production can be used as building blocks for life-cycle assessments that include agricultural products, and can also serve as a first step toward identifying crop production processes that benefit most from increased efficiency. A general trend toward increased energy efficiency in U.S. agriculture has been reported. For wheat cultivation, in particular, this study updates cradle-to-gate process analyses produced in the seventies and eighties. Input quantities were obtained from official U.S. statistics and other sources an
d multiplied by calculated or recently published energy coefficients. The total energy input into the production of a kilogram of average U.S. wheat grain is estimated to range from 3,1 to 4.9 MJ/kg, with a best estimate at 3.9 Mj/kg. The dominant contribution is energy embodied in nitrogen fertilizer at 47% of the total energy input, followed by diesel fuel (25%), and smaller contributions such as energy embodied in seed grain, gasoline, electricity, and phosphorus fertilizer. This distribution is reflected in the energy carrier mix, with natural gas dominating (57%), followed by diesel fuel (30%). High variability in energy coefficients masks potential gains in total energy efficiency as compared to earlier, similar U.S. studies. Estimates from an input-output model for several input processes agree well with process analysis results, but the model's application can be limited by aggregation issues: Total energy inputs for generic food grain production were lower than wheat fertilizer inputs alone, possibly due to aggregation of diverse products into the food grain sector.Water and energy are two primary natural resources used by building occupants. A life-cycle assessment (LCA) is performed for water-consuming plumbing fixtures and water-consuming appliances during their operational life for four different building types. Within the cycle studied, water is extracted from the natural environment, subjected to water treatment, pumped to buildings for use, collected for wastewater treatment, and discharged back to the natural environment. Specifically, the impacts of water use, electricity and natural gas generation, energy consumption (for water and wastewater treatment, and for water heating), and the manufacture of water and wastewater treatment chemicals are evaluated both quantitatively and qualitatively on a generalized national level in the United States of America. It is concluded that water use and consumption within buildings have a much larger impact on resource consumption than the water and wastewater treatment stages of the life cycle. To study this more specifically, the resource consumption of four different building types-an apartment building, a college dormitory, a motel, and an office building-is considered. Of these four building types, the apartment has the highest energy consumption (for water and wastewater treatment, and for water heating) per volume of water used, whereas the office building has the lowest. Similarly, the calculated LCA score for the apartment building is typically greater than those of the other three building types.Improving eco-efficiency can contribute to sustainable development. This article defines the societal services and environmental impacts of the lead-acid battery (LAB) system and offers definitions of eco-efficiency, resource efficiency, and environmental efficiency in the context of LAB systems. Based on the actual lead-flow in the LAB system, we develop a model that considers changes in production, the time interval between production and disposal, direct linkages between the final product and the societal service it provides, and the fiscal year as the statistical period. From this model, equations for eco-efficiency are derived and changes in eco-efficiency are predicted. The results show, not surprisingly, that increased lead recycling and reduced lead emissions will both improv
e eco-efficiency. The resource and environmental efficiencies for LAB in China are 1 19 and 13 1 kilowatt-hour-years per metric tonne (kWh (.) yr/t), respectively, versus a value for both of 15,800 kWh (.) yr/t in Sweden. The difference results from a lower lead recycling rate (only 0.312 tonne/tonne, which means that nearly 70% of the old lead scrap is not recycled based on official statistics) and higher lead emissions (0.324 tonne/tonne, which means that nearly 33% of the lead inputs used in the LAB system were lost into the environment) in China. Further analysis shows that these problems result from inefficient management of lead scrap, poor quality lead ore, and an abundance of small-scale lead-related plants. Ways to improve eco-efficiency are proposed.Ecological footprints (EF) have been used for more than 15 yr as an aggregate measure of sustainability of geographical regions, but also for certain products and activities. EF analysis measures the bioproductive areas required to produce resources such as crops and timber, the directly occupied areas for infrastructure, and areas for absorbing waste flows (mostly limited to carbon dioxide) in a given year for a defined population. The need to extend ecological footprint analysis to electronic products arose because so far, mobile phones have mainly been evaluated using life-cycle assessments with a focus on toxicity, end-of-life management, and energy use, thus ignoring the wider sustainability implications. This article presents the footprint results from three mobile phone case studies. To establish the land areas consumed by the mined materials used in electronic products, a database was developed based on literature data and on approximations from the density and overburden of materials. The relationship between abundance and overburden values was used in a regression analysis to estimate energy requirements in materials extraction where other data were not available. Using a life-cycle assessment approach, environmental burdens for producing and using a mobile phone were calculated and transformed into the instantaneous rate of resource consumption. Key results were that different electronic products have different ecological footprints and that the methodology proved sensitive enough to reveal differences in small electronic products and for monitoring technologies that use bioproductive space efficiently.In this article we discuss the interplay between extended producer responsibility (EPR) and technological change and innovation (TCI) in Norway. We ask whether Norwegian EPR policy has an effect on TO and, if so, whether it makes any difference how the EPR policies are designed. By carrying out a comparative study between the plastic packaging (PP) sector and electrical and electronic (EE) sector in Norway, we conclude that there is a correlation between Norwegian EPR policy and TO, but the causality is rather weak, EPR has an effect on downstream activities through increased recycling and indirectly through institutional innovation and learning. It does not, however, make a significant difference how the policies are designed, because they are considered similar by a majority of actors contributing financially to the EPR schemes, As for technological change and innovation upstream, the role of Norwegian EPR policies in the observed trends is not significant. Other factors s
uch as the EPR-based Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive promulgated by the European Union (EE sector) and the need for competitiveness (PP sector) seem far more important. In order to make collective EPR policies more powerful in inducing technological change and innovation, decision-makers should consider more specific measures that directly address the core businesses of the producers.As a subdiscipline of industrial ecology, industrial symbiosis is concerned with resource optimization among colocated companies. The industrial symbiosis complex in Kalundborg, Denmark is the seminal example of industrial symbiosis in the industrial ecology literature. In spite of this, there has been no in-depth quantitative analysis enabling more comprehensive understanding of economic and environmental performances connected to this case. In this article some of the central industrial symbiotic exchanges, involving water and steam, in Kalundborg are analyzed, using detailed economic and environmental data. It is found that both substantial and minor environmental benefits accrue from these industrial symbiosis exchanges and that economic motivation often is connected to upstream or downstream operational performance and not directly associated with the value of the exchanged by product or waste itself. It is concluded that industrial symbiosis, as viewed from a company perspective, has to be understood both in terms of individual economic and environmental performance, and as a more collective approach to industrial sustainability.How successful are multinational corporations in extending their firm-based environmental standards to their subsidiaries and those subsidiaries' local suppliers in their global production networks in developing countries? We address this question through an in-depth case study of how Motorola, a prominent multinational electronics firm with an extensive global production network, is using a set of firm-based standards to meet several new stringent European Union environmental directives. The case study demonstrates that these firm-based standards appear to be enabling a major subsidiary and its suppliers in one developing economy to reduce the environmental intensities of their production activities. This finding suggests that the firm-based environmental standards of multinationals with extensive global production networks might contribute to a leveling up of environmental standards in subsidiaries and their local suppliers, rather than a "race to the bottom," thus reinforcing the technique or intensity effects associated with open trade, investment, and technology policies.The number and diversity of chemicals produced and used in society today are growing in conjunction with the both evident and uncertain environmental impacts associated with the life cycles of these chemicals. Chemical management services (CMS) is a business strategy based on a strategic, long-term contract, according to which the supplier of chemical management services accepts the responsibility for managing chemicals and strives to reduce the associated costs and risks. This strategy also has the potential for reducing the environmental impacts of chemicals. This article provides an overview of the existing advantages and barriers for CMS providers and customers in the European context identifies conflicts of interest between them, a
nd highlights important lessons regarding the role of CMS in shaping these markets. It reports on findings from interviews with European chemical producers and other stakeholders of chemical management services and is directed toward industry professionals interested in chemical management services. It concludes that economic and environmental advantages of CMS are not automatically guaranteed and lists factors that are critical for developing a win-win CMS for both providers and customers. Finally, ways of fostering CMS dissemination in Europe are suggested.One engine that drives the United States' economic growth is an ever-increasing demand for manufactured products, both at home and abroad. This increase has created a major concern for the environment in terms of disposing used goods and ensuring that these products are safe. As environmental concerns grow, however, renewable resources are gaining increasing attention, especially as industrial ecology and product biodegradability gain importance. Added to this, biological materials are increasingly being utilized to replace traditional materials in manufacturing. To aid both educators as well as researchers, this paper examines several considerations that are essential for manufacturing plastic products that contain biomaterials. These include the selection of materials, the selection of manufacturing processes, manufacturing costs, and the quality of final products. Additionally, several standard methods that are commonly used for the determination of mechanical and physical properties are compiled; thus this paper should be a useful resource for both educators and researchers. The trends discussed here and their implications are critical for those involved in manufacturing, because contrary to conventional wisdom, simultaneously meeting the material production needs of our society, as well as that of the environment are not mutually-exclusive.Increasing attention is being given now a days to developing environmental management (EM) strategies for the supply chain. This research: (1) investigates the factors leading to the development of a closed-loop supply chain, (2) describes the closed-loop supply chain design, (3) focuses on the collection challenges companies have been facing. More specifically, this paper tends to (4) show that manufacturers can create value by implementing a partnership with an eco-non-profit community organization in the collection process of used products for the closed-loop supply chain. This study focuses on the reuse-a-shoe program of Nike and the creation of Throwplace.com to point out the benefits of strategic alliances between manufacturers and eco-non-profit organizations. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The project of industrial ecology is to offer guidance to the industrial systems, in order that they function in a cyclic way. After having developed the principal arguments which militate in favour of industrial ecology and having offered an exemplary case, I will examine the limits of the analogy between industrial systems and ecological systems,thus expressing the circumstances and the factors which preclude the former to function at least roughly like the latter. The exemplary case having shown that technological effectiveness is not enough to grant a competitive advantage, I will finish by offering support to the contention that one c
an regard industrial ecology as a form of Utopia.Electrodialysis with bipolar membranes (EDBM) is a kind of technology that integrates solvent and salt dissociation. It can realize salt conversion without second salt pollution or provide H+ and OH-/alkoxide ions in situ without salt introduction. Thus, it inherently possesses economical and environmental benefits. Moreover, its technological compatibility gives rise to new functions when it couples with other technologies, such as complexion, ion exchange, extraction, and adsorption. In view of the above peculiarities, EDBM has found many interesting applications in chemistry, food processing, biochemical industries, and environmental protection. However, its development has been restricted by such factors as lack of recognition of its contribution to industrial ecology, high membrane cost, insufficient research investment, and scarce operation experience. This paper compiles an introduction to this technology from the perspective of industrial ecology and conducts an extensive examination into EDBM applications. Its purpose is to gather synergic strength from academia, industry, and government to perfect EDBM for sustainable development.Materials flow analysis (MFA) generates highly aggregated indicators for the material "scale" of national economies. Similarly, transport statistics operate with indicators for the scale of freight transport activity. This article presents a model that seeks to predict the scale of freight transport from material flows. In the first part, the model MEFASPACE is developed conceptually and formally, as a linear and static ("mechanistic") model linking biophysical variables by,defined causalities ("white box"). The key prediction is that transport volume (TV in metric tons) relates to direct material input (DMI) by a reloading factor, which, for thermodynamic reasons, varies very little, Transport work (TW in metric ton kilometers), the most common indicator for transport activity, depends on TV and distance per haul. In a second part, we probe this model with transport statistics from European countries for the past four decades. Whereas for road and rail transport statistical indicators exist for many countries and years and comply with our model's theoretical definitions, they are either lacking or not complying well for other modes. The results were encouraging, nevertheless. In the past four decades, DMI corresponded very closely to TV as predicted, with a reloading factor that is in the expected range (1-3) and fairly stable across countries and time. At the same time, distances per haul showed a much more dynamic pattern, with quite a bit of variation between countries and a clear tendency to increase over time. Thus, MFA opens a new path for projections and scenario building for freight transport, but needs to be coupled to knowledge from other fields to generate a full picture of transport distances and, finally environmental pressure.Integrated environmental assessment of technologies and processes associated with industrial ecology requires the sharing of expert knowledge from a wide range of domains of research. A concept for an Internet-based platform that uses Internet and communication technologies to support knowledge sharing in the form of numerical model computational services for solving complex problems related to large-scale systems such
 as urban ecosystems has been proposed. Here, a software prototype that has been developed for sharing and discovery of expert knowledge from domains related to industrial ecology is described. The prototype uses the combination of a generic upper level ontology and a specific domain level ontology to provide a semantic layer for the process of searching and matching knowledge requests with knowledge advertisements. Knowledge advertisements are provided in the form of semantic descriptions of computational model service capabilities. The prototype uses a multiagent system to support the realization of a distributed knowledge-sharing marketplace on the Internet, populated by agents that advertise model services, agents that make requests on behalf of system users, agents that supply ontologies, agents that conduct searches on behalf of other agents, and agents that manage address and function repositories for other agents. A proof of concept demonstration of the prototype is provided, using a hypothetical scenario of four researchers around the world who have knowledge that could aid each other's research efforts.Changes in food consumption and related processes have a significant impact on the flow of nitrogen in the environment. This study identifies both flows within the system and emissions to the hydrosphere and atmosphere. A case study of an average inhabitant of the city of Linkoping, Sweden, covers the years 1870, 1900, 1950, and 2000 and includes changes in food consumption and processing, agricultural production, and organic waste handling practices. Emissions to the hydrosphere from organic waste handling increased from 0.57 kilograms of nitrogen per capita per year (kg N/cap per year) to 3.1 kg N/cap per year, whereas the total flow of nitrogen to waste deposits grew from a negligible amount to 1.7 kg N/cap per year The largest flow of nitrogen during the entire period came from fodder The input of chemical fertilizer rose gradually to a high level of 15 kg N/cap per year in the year 2000. The total load per capita disposed of to the environment decreased during these 130 years by about 30%.Disposal of end-of-life vehicles (EM) is a relatively new focus of the European policy community. Technical requirements for car design and minimum reuse and recovery rates for end-of-life vehicles are the subject of a recent European Union directive on ELVs. This directive is expected to induce changes in the infrastructure required for ELV processing, and presents a substantial challenge to maintaining such an infrastructure as economically viable. This paper assesses current and emerging ELV recycling technologies, in order to provide guidelines for the development of future ELV recycling strategies. Emphasis is given to technologies dedicated to automobile shredder residue (ASR) recovery, as an alternative/complement to more labor-intensive dismantling activities. The ultimate goal is to develop a vision of the type of ASR processing technology that could emerge in the future. The analysis is based on a model developed to simulate ELV processing infrastructures, and shredding data are taken from full-scale experiments. The results obtained show that ASR mechanical separation and recycling technologies may enable more extensive recycling and contribute to achieving European Union recycling targets, and can thus be considered as far more p
romising than technologies based on energy recovery.As of I January 2006 all automotive OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and component manufacturers operating within the European Union will need to comply with the End-of-Life Vehicle Directive (referred to hereafter as the EU ELV Directive). The EU ELV Directive compels all OEMs to take back and dismantle all motor vehicles for domestic use at the end of their useful lives. Each component part will then be either reused or recycled. To this end, the ultimate goal of the EU ELV Directive is that all motor vehicles for domestic use will have a reuse or recyclable content of 85% at the end of their useful lives, moving toward 95% by 2015. The burden of the EU ELV Directive falls on both the OEMs and their component manufacturers, forcing them to innovate and "design for disassembly" This being the case, it offers a unique real world example with which to test the Porter Hypothesis. Porter asserts that strict, correctly formulated environmental regulation can offer a firm secondary benefits through improved product design and the reduction of waste. This in turn allows the firm to offset the cost of compliance. Because the EU ELV Directive has been fashioned to force firms into a process of innovation and redesign, the magnitude of these so-called offsets can be judged. This article employs Rugman and Verbeke's 1998 strategic matrix of firm response to environmental regulation to examine qualitative details of the strategic response of automotive component manufacturers and OEMs in the United Kingdom to the demands of the directive to judge the volume of offsets generated. This analysis shows no support for the Porter Hypothesis and challenges the assumptions of Rugman and Verbeke's model.This article presents a scenario analysis for a life-cycle model of service sector companies. The model is based on six case companies and it is applied to test the influence of 32 management scenarios. The scenarios simulate feasible options for environmental management measures in companies, and the life-cycle assessment method is used to model their relevance in terms of the total environmental impact of the company. The study found that the bulk of tested scenarios had only a minor influence on the total environmental impact of the company. Some individual management scenarios, though, turned out to have a major influence on the organization's environmental performance. The scenarios with greatest influence were those related to the procurement of electricity, building energy consumption, commuting vehicle mix, space usage efficiency, and refurbishment periods of the building. All of these management scenarios had an influence of more than 10% on the environmental impact of the model organization.This article presents an account of global resource extraction for the year 1999 by material groups, world regions, and development status. The account is based on materials flow analysis methodology and provides benchmark information for political strategies toward sustainable resource management. It shows that currently around 50 thousand megatons of resources are extracted yearly on a global scale, which results in a yearly global average resource use of around 8 tonnes per capita. Assuming further growth in world regions not yet close to the levels of resource use in the industrial cores-such as India
 or China-numbers could easily double once these parts of the world come to fully incorporate the industrial mode of production and consumption. This article contributes to information on resource use indicators, complementing and enriching information from economic accounting in order to facilitate political measures toward a sustainable use of resources.This article presents an assessment of energy inputs of the European Union (the 15 countries before the 2004 enlargement, abbreviated EU-15) for the period 1970-2001 and the United States for 1980-2000. The data are based on an energy flow analysis (EFA) that evaluates socioeconomic energy flows in a way that is conceptually consistent with current materials flow analysis (MFA) methods. EFA allows assessment of the total amount of energy required by a national economy; it yields measures of the size of economic systems in biophysical units. In contrast to conventional energy balances, which only include technically used energy, EFA also accounts for socioeconomic inputs of biomass; that is, it also considers food, feed, wood and other materials of biological origin. The energy flow accounts presented in this article do not include embodied energy. Energy flow analyses are relevant for comparisons across modes of subsistence (e.g., agrarian and industrial society) and also to detect interrelations between energy utilization and land use. In the EU-15, domestic energy consumption (DEC = apparent consumption = domestic extraction plus import minus export) grew from 60 exajoules per year (I Ej = 10(18) J) in 1970 to 79 Ej/yr in 2001, thus exceeding its territory's net primary production (NPP, a measure of the energy throughput of ecosystems). In the United States, DEC increased from 102 Ej/yr in 1980 to 125 Ej/yr in 2000 and was thus slightly smaller than its NPP Taken together, the EU-15 and the United States accounted for about 38% of global technical energy use, 3 1 % of humanity's energetic metabolism, but only 10% of global terrestrial NPP and I I % of world population in the early 1990s. Per capita DEC of the United States is more than twice that of the EU-15. Calculated according to EFA methods, energy input in the EU and the United States was between and one-third above the corresponding value reported in one-fifth. conventional energy balances. The article discusses implications of these results for sustainability, as well as future research needs.This commentary responds to the study "The Energetic Metabolism of the European Union and the United States: Decadal Energy Input Time-Series with an Emphasis on Biomass" by Halberl and colleagues, published in this issue. Their article provides an analysis based on a set of data that could be very useful for discussing the sustainability of economic processes in terms of resource flows and societal relations to nature. The authors' choice to adopt a reductionist analysis of the metabolism of societies in energetic terms-that is, an analysis based on a single-scale and single-variable indicator such as "joules of energy input metabolized per year for the whole society"-is a controversial one. Such a choice implies the aggregation of different types of data (referring to nonequivalent categories of energy inputs) into a single overall assessment. That is, in their study the authors are adopting an old and controversial solution for aggregat
ing different types of forms: applying a set of flat conversion factors (calorimetric equivalent) to the different types of energy inputs considered. This commentary discusses the trade-off entailed by any method of aggregation of energy forms of different quality: (i) compression-reducing the number of indices used-versus (ii) relevance-maintaining a diversity of categories needed for the usefulness of the analysis. A brief history of the main strategies adopted, so far, for dealing with the problem of aggregation suggests implications for the approach adopted by Haberl and colleagues.In the late 1990s, office furniture manufacturer Herman Miller, Inc., entered into a collaboration with architect William McDonough to create a system for designing cradle-to-cradle products. This collaboration led to the creation of a tool-the Design for Environment (DfE) product assessment tool-that evaluates progress towards cradle-to-cradle products. The first product Herman Miller designed using the DfE product assessment tool was the Mirra chair Over the course of the chair's development, the DfE process generated a number of design changes, including selecting a completely different material for the chair's spine, increasing recycled content in chair components, eliminating all PVC (polyvinyl chloride) components, and designing the chair for rapid disassembly using common tools, The areas of greatest success in designing the Mirra chair for the environment were the increased use of recyclable parts and increased ease of disassembly, whereas the areas of greatest challenge were increasing recycled content and using materials with a green chemistry composition. The success in recyclability reflects the use of metals, materials that have a well-established recycling infrastructure. The success in disassembly reflects the high degree of control that Herman Miller has over product assembly. The challenge to increasing recycled content is the use of plastics in chairs. Unlike the metals, which all contain some recycled content, most plastics are made from virgin polymers. The challenge to improving materials chemistry is the limited range of green chemicals and materials on the market, The Mirra chair exemplifies the value of incorporating the environment into design and the need for tools to benchmark progress, as well as the challenges of creating a truly cradle-to-cradle product. Herman Miller recognizes that working toward cradle-to-cradle products is a journey that will involve continuous improvement of its products.Students in Dr. Klementina Khait's class, "Industrial Ecology of Materials and Products," at Northwestern University get a new take on the "Three Rs": The revised version-Reduce, Reuse, Recycle.This paper presents the methodology of value chain analysis developed for a study which combined a material flow analysis of the UK iron and steel sector with a consideration of the economic dimension of those material flows, in order to shed light on concepts such as resource productivity and dematerialisation of the economy. The methodology is used in this paper to map the current value chain of iron and steel flows through the UK, noting the high value of scrap arisings at different stages of the production and use chain, and the substantial cost of disposing of iron and steel as waste; to examine the residual outputs generated by this industry a
nd the value of applying industrial ecology principles; to contrast the environmental impacts of different categories of materials with their values; and to discuss the findings in terms of the global environmental burden of this sector of the economy, with particular attention paid to international trade aspects. It was found that while imports are substantial, net imports are, in terms of both weight and value, a rather small part-just under 20%-of total UK iron and steel production and use (defined as domestic production plus net imports). The findings show that value chain analysis is a robust methodology for exploring various aspects of the economy-environment interface, and a useful complement to material flow or life cycle analyses with a potentially very widespread applicability. The value chain analysis also provides a framework for coherent and integrated responses by industry as well as policy-makers, through its focus on linkages within different stages and actors in a chain and on the potential for systemic efficiencies. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Animal husbandry industry in Jilin Province is developing rapidly toward the one in large-scale, standardization and industrialization. It is upgrading to a higher level. This lays the foundation for the industry to practice ecological industry. Following the policies of Chinese Government, more and more enterprises are being engaged in seeking the effective ways of circular-economy. This paper does some researches on the projects of two major enterprises in this industry, redesigns the eco-industrial chains using principles of industrial ecology, and provides two models of circular-economy, namely vertical circulation and horizontal combination. After that, it analyzes the technological and economic effectiveness of the two designing plans. At the end, it summaries the traits of suitable circular-economy models adopted in the industry.Ecological modernization provides a theoretical framework for situating the emergence of new technology-intensive modes of environmental reform such as industrial ecology, environmentally conscious manufacturing, and ecological design. These forms of professional engineering practice all seek to exploit opportunities for aggressive innovation to achieve rigorous improvements in the environmental performance of industrial processes and consumer goods. Despite the potential of this approach, the American environmental movement has not offered much active support. This reticence is attributable to the historical development of organized environmentalism in the United States and its general tendency to privilege the interests of landscape and wildlife protection over concerns about public health and industrial pollution. There also exists within major segments of the country's environmental movement an inertia that stems from an institutionalized preference for litigation and lobbying and a wariness about technologically intensive policy programs. Novel initiatives launched by Environmental Defense and the Natural Resources Defense Council over the past decade however provide some instructive lessons for coming to terms with a more innovation-driven future. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This article analyzes the environmental effects of resource consumption at a subnational level (by Cardiff, the capital city of Wales), using 
the Ecological Footprint as a measure of impact assessment. The article begins by providing a short critique of the Footprint methodology and the limitations of methods traditionally used to calculate national Footprint accounts. We then describe the Footprint methodology developed by the Stockholm Environment Institute to overcome some of these problems and used as the basis of the Reducing Wales' Ecological Footprint project, of which the Cardiff study has been a part. The main portion of this article focuses on presenting and discussing the Footprint results for Cardiff. The Ecological Footprint of household consumption in Cardiff will be presented using the international Classification of Individual Consumption According to Purpose (COICOP). Based on the results, we found that the areas of consumption that are a priority for Cardiff in terms of reducing resource use are food and drink, passenger transport (car and aviation), domestic fuel consumption, waste, and tourism. We also discuss how these findings have been presented to the Cardiff Council. We report on the initial reactions of policy officers to the Footprint results and how the Council plans to use them to influence policy decisions relating to sustainability. Finally, in the Conclusions section, we briefly explain the value of applying the Ecological Footprint at a subnational level and its value as an evidence-based tool for sustainability decision making.In a German case study, environmental input-output analyses (eIOA) combined with NAMEA-type tables were conducted for eleven selected environmental pressure variables. (NAMEA is an acronym for national accounts matrix including environmental accounts.) The analyses were conducted to derive the production-cycle-wide resource use and environmental impact potentials of final-demand product groups. The methodology permits identification and preliminary ranking of 10 product chains along which about two-thirds of German production-born environmental pressures arise. The most relevant product groups are construction work, food, motor vehicles, basic metals, and electricity. The ten product groups are characterized by both high resource requirements and high residual outputs (air emissions, wastes). The EU policy areas of integrated product policy and sustainable use of natural resources may address these product chains as a priority in order to identify and explore the possibility of reducing the environmental impacts from products throughout their life cycles and to decouple environmental impacts from resource use.The present study shows the results and methodology applied to the study of the identification of priority product categories for Belgian product and environmental policy The main goal of the study was to gather insight into the consumption of products in Belgium and their related life-cycle environmental impacts. The conclusions of this project on the product categories with major environmental contributions can be used to start up working groups involving stakeholders and initiate detailed product studies on the impact reduction potential that could be achieved by means of implementing product policy measures. Several ways of assessing product category environmental impacts and the effects of policy measures have been developed; 'bottom-up' or'market-life-cycle assessment' is one of these, and we tried this approac
h for the situation in Belgium. Simplified life-cycle assessment (LCA) studies were conducted for representative average products within each function-based product category and the results were multiplied with market statistics. Using this approach, we found that building construction, building occupancy, and personal transport are among the major categories for Belgium. The major drawbacks of this approach are the system-level limitations and the existence of a broad spectrum of nonharmonized methods and clatasets from which a sound preliminary selection had to be made. Consequently, the retrieval and selection of data was very time consuming and due to this we had to accept some major limitations in the study design. Nevertheless, the study has contributed to the development of a methodology for market-LCA and elements that can be picked up in currently ongoing and future work. The study concludes that to improve the feasibility and acceptance of this type of study there is a need for the development of a harmonized methodology on market-LCA, policy-relevant impact indicators as well as a harmonized and stakeholder-agreed-upon LCA databases.This article quantifies and ranks the environmental pressure caused by different product groups consumed in Sweden. This is done using information from economic and environmental statistics. An analysis for the year 1998 is performed for approximately 50 product groups using input-output analysis. This type of analysis has some major advantages for integrated product policy (IPP) purposes: the underlying data are regularly updated, the data systems are being harmonized by international standards, and the connection between environmental goals and IPP goals can be investigated. This article summarizes two Swedish reports, one for the Producer Responsibility Committee and one for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency The results show that the volume of consumption is an important factor in environmental pressure from products as well as impact intensities. The most important product categories for private consumption are petroleum products, electricity, construction, and food and beverages, as well as transport. Possibilities of building indicators for IPP are also discussed.To focus Danish product-oriented environmental policy, a study applying extended input-output analysis has been performed, identifying the most important product groups from an environmental perspective. The environmental impacts are analyzed from three different perspectives-the supply perspective, the consumption perspective, and the process perspective-cliffering primarily in their system delimitation. The top ten environmentally most important product groups (out of 138 industry products and 98 final consumption groups) are listed for each of the three perspectives, using both total environmental impact and environmental impact intensity as ranking principles. The study covers all substances that contribute significantly to the environmental impact categories of global warming, ozone depletion, acidification, nutrient enrichment, photochemical ozone formation, ecotoxicity human toxicity, and nature occupation. The differences in results between the three perspectives are elaborated and their policy relevance discussed. The top ten product groups account for a surprisingly large share of the total environmental impact of 
Danish production and consumption (up to 45%, depending upon the perspective). This implies that product-oriented environmental policy may achieve large improvements by focusing on a rather small number of product groups. Both imported products and products produced for export in general cause more environmental impact than products produced in Denmark for the Danish market. Especially noticeable are the export of meat and ship transport. This leads to the recommendation to include specific policy measures targeting both foreign producers and foreign markets. Because of its relatively large input of labor, public consumption is found to have a much smaller environmental impact intensity than private consumption. The results confirm results of other similar studies, but are more detailed and have lower uncertainty, due to a number of improvements in data and methodology. A short presentation of the methodology is provided as background information, although this is not the main focus of this article.A promising way to reduce environmental impacts of consumer expenditure is through the encouragement of more sustainable consumption patterns. Consumers cause environmental impacts both directly, such as by fuel use in personal cars, and indirectly, by paying for the production of consumables. With increased international trade, the indirect environmental impacts are difficult to determine because a portion of the emissions occurs in different geographical regions. Many previous studies have unrealistically assumed that imports are produced using domestic production technology. For countries with diverging technology and energy mixes the likely errors are significant. This study applies a methodology that explicitly includes technology differences to the case of Norwegian households. It is found that a significant portion of pollution is embodied in Norwegian household imports. Further, a disproportionately large amount of pollution is embodied in imports from developing countries. Overall, as in previous studies, we find that mobility and food are most important in terms of household environmental impacts. By analyzing the imports in more detail we find that for some sectors the majority of emissions occur in foreign regions; in particular, this is true for food, business services, clothing, chemicals, furniture, cars, agriculture, textiles, and most manufactured products.The 1990s policy trend of intervening at the specification level over a broad range of products has ended. Today's environmental product policies focus, rather, on a few arbitrary product groups. Selectiveness should serve absolute environmental impact reduction, which asks for a rational product-selection and target framework. The authors propose "life-cycle impact per consumer expenditure" as a key criterion. This criterion helps to connect macro environmental impact reduction aims with product innovation targets, even under continuous economic growth, consumption pattern shifts, and rebound threats. The authors analyze the Dutch economy as an exercise. This results in 44 product groups, labeled "Hyenas" by the authors, that need to improve their ratio score drastically between now and 2040. Some magnitudes of desired change are given. Finally, intervention processes at the Hyena group level along the lines of sustainable transition management are proposed. joint visioning,
 experimental portfolios, interaction between micro, meso, and macro change levels, and gradual pressure building are crucial elements in this concept of complex change management.For developing product policy, insight into the environmental effects of products is required. But available life-cycle assessment studies (LCAs) are hardly comparable between different products and do not cover total consumption. Input-output analysis with environmental extensions (EEIOA) of full consumption is not available for the European Union. Available country studies have a low sector resolution and a limited number of environmental extensions, This study fills the gap between detailed LCA and low-resolution EEIOA, specifying the environmental effects of household consumption in the European Union, discerning nearly 500 sectors, while specifying a large number of environmental extensions. Added to the production sectors are a number of consumption activities with direct emissions, such as automobile driving, cooking and heating, and a number of postconsumer waste management sectors. The data for Europe have been constructed by using the sparse available and coarse economic and environmental data on European countries and adding technological detail mainly based on data from the United States. A small number of products score high on environmental impact per Euro and also have a substantial share of overall consumer expenditure. Several meat and dairy products, household heating, and car driving thus have a large share of the total environmental impact. Due to their sales volume, however, products with a medium or low environmental score per Euro may also have a substantial impact. This is the case with bars and restaurants, clothing, residential construction, and even a service such as telecommunications. The limitations in real European data made heroic assumptions necessary to operationalize the model. One conclusion, therefore, is that provision of data in Europe urgently needs to be improved, at least to the level of sector detail currently available for the United States and Japan.Integrated product policy, according to the European Union, requires reliable data on the impact of consumer products along their life cycles. We argue that this necessarily requires the development of an information tool for hybrid analysis, combining aspects of life-cycle assessment and input-output analysis. A number of requirements in the development of such a hybrid information tool are identified, mainly concerning data and computational structure. For the former, some important points of attention are discussed, whereas for the latter, operational formulas are developed.Environmental effects of economic activities are ultimately driven by consumption, via impacts of the production, use, and waste management phases of products and services ultimately consumed. Integrated product policy (IPP) addressing the life-cycle impacts of products forms an innovative new generation of environmental policy Yet this policy requires insight into the final consumption expenditures and related products that have the greatest life-cycle environmental impacts. This review article brings together the conclusions of 11 studies that analyze the life-cycle impacts of total societal consumption and the relative importance of different final consumption categories, This review addresses in 
general studies that were included in the project Environmental Impacts of Products (EIPRO) of the European Union (EU), which form the basis of this special issue. Unlike most studies done in the past 25 years on similar topics, the studies reviewed here covered a broad set of environmental impacts beyond just energy use or carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The studies differed greatly in basic approach (extrapolating LCA data to impacts of consumption categories versus approaches based on environmentally extended input-output (EEIO) tables), geographical region, disaggregation of final demand, data inventory used, and method of impact assessment. Nevertheless, across all studies a limited number of priorities emerged. The three main priorities, housing, transport, and food, are responsible for 70% of the environmental impacts in most categories, although covering only 55% of the final expenditure in the 25 countries that currently make up the EU. At a more detailed level, priorities are car and most probably air travel within transport, meat and dairy within food, and building structures, heating, and (electrical) energy-using products within housing. Expenditures on clothing, communication, health care, and education are considerably less important. Given the very different approaches followed in each of the sources reviewed, this result hence must be regarded as extremely robust. Recommendations are given to harmonize and improve the methodological approaches of such analyses, for instance, with regard to modeling of imports, inclusion of capital goods, and making an explicit distinction between household and government expenditure.The research and analysis presented in this special issue shows that the same limited number of consumption categories are consistently revealed to be responsible for the largest share of environmental impact: mobility (automobile and air transport), food (meat, poultry, fish, and dairy followed by plant-based food), and residential energy use in the house (heating, cooling, electrical appliances, and lighting). It appears that differences in impact per euro between the product groupings are relatively limited, so it is essential to reduce the life-cycle impacts of products as such, rather than to shift expenditures to less impact-intensive product groupings. Furthermore, the effectiveness of expenditure on material products to improve quality of life leaves much room for improvement. Environmentally extended input-output (EEIO) tables probably form, in this field, the most appropriate information support tool for priority setting, prospective assessment of options, scenario analysis, and monitoring. A clear benefit would result from integrating the input-output (10) tables in the report to Eurostat of the 25 individual countries that make up the European Union (EU), with other officially available information on emissions and resources use, into a 60-sector EEIO table forthe EU. This, obviously, would be the first step toward more detailed tables. Three strategies are suggested to realize the additional, desirable detail of 150 sectors or more, each achievable at an increasing time horizon and with increasing effort: (1) developing further the current CEDA EU25 table; (2) building a truly European detailed inputoutput table accepting the restrictions of existing data gathering procedures; and (3) as (2), but 
developing new, dedicated data gathering and classification procedures. In all cases, a key issue is harmonizing classification systems for industry sectors, consumer expenditure categories, and product classifications (as.. in import/export statistics) in such a way that data sets may adequately be linked to input-output tables.Telework has emerged as a possible solution to transportation-related air pollution problems. This paper analyzes, both deterministically and probabilistically, a California-based 1-day telework scenario, and explores how the mode of transportation and other parameters such as vehicle miles traveled, vehicle model, occupancy rate, telecommuting frequency, and season (heating or cooling) affect the air pollution effects of telework programs when energy consumption-related emissions due to heating, cooling, lighting, and the use of electronic and electrical equipment (in the home and company office) are accounted for. Among others, the study found that total telework-related CO2 emissions during the cooling season and SO2, NOx, and hydrocarbon emissions in both seasons appear to be lower than nontelework emissions for all modes of transportation (except for light rail with higher NOx emissions and urban transit buses with roughly equal NOx emissions in the heating season). Light rail also has higher telework N2O and CH4 emissions. However, given the uncertainties in the data, the differences may be negligible. Urban transit buses and commuter express buses were found to be associated with more telework than nontelework CO emissions in both seasons. For these two modes, telework PM10 emissions are higher in the cooling and about the same in the heating season than nontelework emissions. Natural gas-powered ferries have more telework PM10 emissions than nontelework emissions. The study also found that for low-frequency telework programs energy use impacts could overturn transportation-related emission reductions independent of the mode of transportation used. Avoiding more polluting modes of transportation, increasing occupancy rates, substituting longer commutes and especially increasing telecommuting frequency could counteract these negative effects.Exergy analysis of eco-industrial systems reflects the thermodynamic characteristics of resource utilization by studying complicated material flow patterns to an industrial system. Different indicators based on exergy analysis are presented, such as system exergy depletion index, cycling ratio of material exergy, etc. which can be used to evaluate the efficiency of resource utilization and the environmental potential effect. The interrelations of these exergy indicators and their interpretation on industrial ecology are further discussed. Finally, the result of case study suggests effectiveness of exergy analysis methods and practicability of these exergy estimate indices.However excellent a product may be environmentally, it would not come into wide use in the economy to realize its environmental load reducing potential unless it is also economically affordable. Life-cycle costing (LCC) is a tool to assess the cost of a product over its entire life cycle, and can be regarded as an economic counterpart of LCA. A combined use of LCA and LCC would be imperative for assessing the sustainability of a product or product systems in the economy. This paper presents a new method
ology of LCC which gives the cost and price counterpart of the hybrid LCA tool (Waste Input-Output, WIO) that was developed by Nakamura and Kondo (2002) [Nakamura, S., Kondo, Y., 2002. Input-output analysis of waste management. Journal of Industrial Ecology 6 (1), 39-63.1]for LCA of waste management. Building upon the preceding LCA study by Kondo and Nakamura (2004) [Kondo, Y., Nakamura, S., 2004. Evaluating alternative life-cycle strategies for electrical appliances by the waste input-output model. International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment 9 (4), 236-246.], the applicability of the methodology is illustrated by a case study of electric appliances under alternative end-of-life scenarios: landfilling, intensive recycling that is consistent with the Japanese law on the recycling of appliances, and an advanced form of intensive recycling augmented by Design for Disassembly (DfD). Application of the proposed LCC methodology indicates that while the life-cycle cost is the highest under intensive recycling and the lowest under landfilling, the cost of recycling can be reduced by appropriate implementation of MD. The possible introduction of a carbon tax is also found to significantly reduce the cost disadvantage of recycling against landfilling. Given the high level of environmental load associated with landfilling and the possible introduction of carbon taxes, Design for Environment or EcoDesign emerges as a strategy of vital importance to achieve the sustainability of appliances. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Chapter 7 of the Pearce Report (2003) elaborates succinctly on the role that technical progress should fulfil within a construction sector committed to the sustainable generation of social and economic value. Caught between technological macro-analysis and policy-steering objectives, and possibly overwhelmed by the difficulty of treating the subject within the limited scope of the report and time available, the chapter offers a few aggregate industrial data and some commendable, albeit generic, recommendations about innovation. Yet, as part of work conceived under the aegis of a strategic and development initiative, the chapter underplays the opportunity of highlighting two issues that have and should condition the policy debate on construction innovation in the future. The first issue is concerned with the project-based nature of the sector and its consequent ability to spur or thwart change. The second involves the definition or indication of practical institutional strategies that can trigger the changes foreseen or promoted within such a context. Based on this critique, a rationale is developed in the present paper for the strategic creation of technical progress by drawing attention to two specific elements: (1) the cost-benefit equation in the generation of new knowledge, and (2) the possible qualitative distribution of research investment opportunities in the industry. It is shown that although construction-related innovation and project-based innovation are naturally connected, a critical difference exists between the two. For the latter to develop and have an impact on the industry, both political support and wilful patronage are required.The notion that industrial systems can be redesigned to reflect 'lessons from nature' has led to the emergence of a new discipline known as 'industrial ecology'. In this paper
 I provide a brief overview of the principles that underpin the discipline, and provide a critical evaluation of the extent to which it is guided by ecology or simply uses the label for rhetorical support. I suggest that simply appealing to ecological analogies is not sufficient to ensure that the impacts of industrial activities are reduced. Further, I propose that the technical process of industrial design needs to be embedded in legitimate social processes if social acceptability is to be attained.Industrial ecology is frequently regarded as the organizing framework for studying interactions of technological societies with the environment. A theme central to industrial ecology is the way that materials are used which, in turn, relates to environmental and resource availability concerns. The material fluxes seen between the production of raw materials, the manufacture and use of products, and their fate at their end of life are quantified using material flow analysis, the record keeping of atoms mobilized by humans within a bounded system. The Stocks and Flows project at Yale University examines the full life cycle of anthropogenically mobilized material on a variety of spatial levels, including city-, country-, regional-, and global-level cycles. Different temporal levels are also examined, with research conducted on historical studies, contemporary studies, and scenario development. Material cycles have been completed for copper, zinc, and silver, with current work including iron and steel, chromium, nickel, tungsten, tin, and lead cycles. Such results illuminate the numerous and diverse drivers for constructing technological material cycles: global and local material scarcity, human health and ecosystem effects, energy and water consumption, high unit value of the material, pertinent regulations, waste management strategies, and economic considerations. The goal of this paper is to provide an overview of selected topics in the field of industrial ecology, to gather from diverse literature key results from the Stocks and Flows project, and to introduce novel analyses related to environmental losses and waste streams that result from anthropogenic use of materials. This is done with the intent to emphasize to the environmental engineering and science audience what may be termed "forward-looking" environmental engineering.This article presents a new methodology for the management of dredging operations. Partly derived from existing methodologies (OECD, UNEP, AIPCN), its aim is to be more complete, by integrating the qualities and complementarities of former methodologies. Moreover, it was carried out in a context of sustainable development. Indeed, it supports, according to a framework of industrial ecology, the development and the implementation of solutions of waste improvement of dredged materials, in order to minimize the environmental impact of dredging. It also uses a tool of MultiCriteria Decision-Making Aid (M.C.D.M.A.), in order to integrate local characteristics. In addition, this tool, called DRAGSED, allows to a dialogue to be established between all the parties concerned with a dredging project (harbour's authorities, industrialists, municipalities, administrations, populations, associations....). Thus, the implementation of this methodology enables consensus to be reached for the dredging solution retained. It also propose
s an environmental follow-up, which will allow an evaluation during its application.This paper presents the new methodology of management of dredging operations. Derived partly from existing methodologies (OECD, PNUE, AIPCN), it aims to be more comprehensive, mixing the qualities and the complementarities of previous methodologies. The application of the methodology has been carried out on the site of the Port of Dunkirk (FRANCE). Thus, a characterization of the sediments of this site has allowed a zoning of the Port to be established in to zones of probable homogeneity of sediments. Moreover, sources of pollution have been identified, with an aim of prevention. Ways of waste improvement have also been developed, to answer regional needs, from a point of view of competitive and territorial intelligence. Their development has required a mutualisation of resources between professionals, research centres and local communities, according to principles of industrial ecology. Lastly, a tool of MultiCriteria Decision-Making Aid (M.C.D.M.A.) has been used to determine the most relevant scenario (or alternative, or action) for a dredging operation intended by the Port of Dunkirk. These applications have confirmed the relevance of this methodology for the management of dredging operations.The broad range of definitions for sustainability has led to the development of several sustainability evaluation frameworks that have emphasized facets of sustainability but have not encompassed all aspects found at the industry and regional level. The aim of this study was to address the broader issues of sustainability of agro-industrial systems. Rather than exclusively focusing on the environmental and social aspects of those economic activities that take place within the boundaries of industrial systems, it should be recognized that they belong to a broader system. The various types of sustainability are highlighted and current sustainability frameworks are evaluated. A comprehensive sustainability model that adequately takes into consideration the various types of sustainability within industrial systems was developed. The proposed framework considered indicators that provide descriptions of the systemic nature of industry and incorporates two-dimensional indicators instead of solely focusing on indicators that provide a one-dimensional, piecemeal evaluation of economics, environment, social and institutional sustainability. By evaluation of the boundaries of each arena, it provides comprehensive understanding of the system. The sustainability of the Costa Rican coffee industry within the context of the new framework is discussed. The framework presented integrates concepts such as industrial ecology and cleaner production, along with the more traditional EMS and social justice programmes, to promote sustainability. The development of employment and economic returns that benefit the local and regional systems through the generation of additional value-added products are promoted through the integration of eco-efficiency into the framework.This paper briefly reviews key insights from natural resource and environmental economics, ecological economics and industrial ecology in an effort to identify the major contributions of these fields to the understanding and promotion of sustainable development. Each is based on overlapping worldviews, methods and tools. Th
eir synthesis and extension-subsumed under the rubric of 'Natural Economics'-is suggested as a new thrust in environmental research, offering valuable guides to policy making. An early illustration of the application of natural economics in New Zealand is presented. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The UK Sustainable Development Strategy requires that society strive to make prudent use of natural resources so as to protect the environment and maintain high and stable levels of economic growth and employment. The Waste Strategy for England and Wales emphasises the need to reduce the amount of waste produced through the adoption of waste minimisation methodology. Waste minimisation clubs have been a key element in the UK programme to introduce more sustainable practice into industry and commerce. Northamptonshire, a county in the East Midlands of England, has benefited from 20 waste minimisation/resource efficiency projects, within a county programme, that have run between 1997 and 2004. This is the largest number in any county in England. This has been possible because of the formation of a large and inclusive partnership that contains all the key Local and Regional players. Performance Indicators have been developed to direct the county programme as it strives to introduce more sustainable waste management practice. The Northamptonshire model has led to a catalysed uptake of sustainable waste management practice in some 574 companies, some 13.4% of participating companies in England in same period, thereby contributing to the maintenance of stable levels of economic activity. However, an inherent limit has been reached with waste minimisation club provision. Future provision for resource efficiency must include the movement towards Industrial Symbiosis (IS) and ultimately Industrial Ecology (IE). The radical shift towards IS and IE will occur as a response to the increased quantification of the resource flows, in a given UK economic area, and the deeper understanding of the diversity and complexity of the systems. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Decision-making on waste infrastructures is difficult because waste management is a complex, politically loaded and emotionally charged issue that is neither well structured, nor well understood. While sustainability is the ultimate goal of the EU environmental policy, there is no commonly accepted approach for its realisation. Industrial ecology has been suggested as a roadmap to sustainability. Its prescriptive tier can provide organising principles for more sustainable practices: closed material cycles, cascaded energy use and flexible system configuration. The engineering concepts, grade and recovery, provide a simple yet powerful means to assess policies and infrastructure concepts with respect to sustainability. When combined, industrial ecology and engineering yield sound infrastructure design specifications and decision-making support for waste infrastructure. (c) 2006 Published by Elsevier Inc.The methodological approach underlying industrial ecology allows an exhaustive appraisal of the flow of materials and energy necessary for the "metabolism" of various economic activities. Study and analysis of these data enable more accurate assessment of activities now underway. They make it possible to look, both in-house and elsewhere, at the effects of complementarity and sy
nergy. Finally, they help to define the strategy that will best enhance resources, by optimizing its economic impact while identifying more clearly its ecological consequences. Using examples from cotton activity, the author demonstrates the value of the concept of industrial ecology in developing sustainable production.This paper presents a design concept originally developed to suit the needs of the agro-industrial sector in the developing economies. It also highlights how this concept fits into other green design paradigms and to the goals of industrial ecology. The need to design for multi-lifecycles arose from the need for durable, easily maintained agri-processing machines in these economies. Most of the available machines are typically imported from countries of entirely different technological, climatic and socio-cultural conditions. Many become unmanageable after only a few years of use because of lack of technical know-how. Consequently, they become environmental problems and sources of economic drain for farmers, processors, regional and municipal authorities. There is therefore a need to develop a design concept that considers all prevalent local techno-economic and socio-cultural conditions, as well as develop design features that promote multi-lifecycle use of such agri-industrial machinery. This design concept incorporates DfX paradigms such as design for modularity, cost, assemblability, manufacturability, disassemblability, maintainability, reusability, and remanufacturability. This concept has been used to design and develop a cassava processing machine. The performance evaluation of the machine compares with the imported ones. By incorporating all the aforementioned DfXs, this design concept promotes resource use optimization, pollution prevention and cost minimization which are among the goals of industrial ecology. It is believed that this design concept can be applied to other areas of need in the industrial and agricultural sectors, and that using this design concept will go far in complementing various efforts aimed at reducing total environmental impact of our industrial activities.The increasing awareness of sustainable development concept and its economic benefits are making environmentally proactive companies to consider how they can achieve eco-efficiency improvement through material exchange and by partnering with academic, governmental and non-governmental agencies. This paper reports the experiences and achievements of a tripartite partnership initiated by the author with a number of companies in Calgary and a Calgarian NGO. The network is a form of eco-industrial network that is being developed to benefit the participating companies and to develop industrial ecology students' skill in eco-industrial network modeling. The paper highlights the initial difficulties, how they were overcome and a conceptual model developed for assessing the sustainability of the material exchange loop. The preliminary results obtained revealed that the companies are enthusiastic in taking part if it will help them achieve waste management cost reduction, improvement in their corporate environmental performance and corporate goodwill, and protection of their proprietary information. It also reveals that such corporate exposure to students develop their skills in balancing their academic view with what works in the corporate worl
d.Concrete is in desperate need of revitalisation in the 21st century due to growing durability, maintenance and environmental concerns. Improving the cement within concrete is an essential part of addressing these concerns. While Portland cement manufacture and use can still undergo slight environmental improvements, great opportunities lie in the utilisation of cements based on alternative compositions, binding-phases and green chemistry. This allows cement to be synthesised from a variety of materials including recycled resources and mineral wastes, which reduces the energy demands during production. The present work introduces industrial ecology and the principles of green chemistry as a means of driving the research, development and commercial attractiveness of alternative and sustainable cements. Three promising alternative cements are reviewed (alkali-activated cements, magnesia cements and sulfoaluminate cements) and compared to blended ordinary Portland cements in terms of their chemistry and properties. Emphasis is given to the material properties, durability, performance and applications of the "greener'' alternative cements. It is clear that alternative cements have considerable potential in terms of environmental, engineering and economic properties.The Kwinana (Western Australia) and Gladstone (Queensland) industrial areas are among the few dozens of heavy industrial areas globally that demonstrate significant levels of regional resource synergies. Such synergies are also referred to as 'industrial ecology' or 'industrial symbiosis'. Fundamentally they involve the exchange of by-products or sharing of utilities between companies in close geographic proximity to achieve competitive advantage and environmental benefit. A concerted research effort is currently underway to foster greater realisation of regional resource synergies in minerals processing intensive regions, in Australia and internationally. This paper summarises current insights from the foundation research into engineering tools and technologies and enabling mechanisms for regional resource synergy developments. Regional resource synergy developments were reviewed for 16 international and two Australian regions. It was found that Kwinana and Gladstone compare favourably with the well-regarded international examples of regional synergy development. Given the fairly strong evidence that self-organisation is critical for regional synergy developments, an implementation model has been proposed that captures entry points for synergy developments at the level of platform (industry collaboration), process (developing synergy opportunities) and project (assessing and implementing specific synergies). It was also found that regional synergies have so far developed in the absence of specific methods for identification and screening of synergy opportunities. Moreover, very limited attention has been paid to the associated technological and engineering challenges. The current technical research effort therefore targets: 1. the development of a toolset for the identification and development of potential synergy opportunities; and 2. assessment of technology needs and opportunities for regional synergies involving water, energy and materials recovery and reuse.Whether or not upper and lower enterprises can build the practical industrial ecological linkages depends mainly on the
 respective consideration for their own benefit and the mutually appropriate strategy choosing under the hypothesis of limited rationality. This literature picks up the 'who assumes the responsibility of industrial waste's treatment' between upper and lower enterprises as the point of departure to analyze the industrial ecological linking mechanism through adopting the 'duplication dynamic model' of quantitative ecology and evolution game theory. A main conclusion drawn from the literature is that the ecology oriented enterprises' development appears self sustained, and the current proportion of the ecology oriented enterprise in economy cluster, the degree of lower enterprise depends on upper enterprise for material supply and environment protection laws etc. have obvious influence on ecological linkage's forming in economy cluster.Energy use as a single indicator or in a set of few indicators is often used in applied research in the building, transportation and energy sectors. However, the environmental relevance of energy indicators is seldom questioned. The relation between environmental relevance and energy indicators might seem obvious. Nevertheless, how this is obvious has not been thoroughly discussed. The aim of this paper is to investigate the environmental relevance of the energy indicator and discuss implications for its use. The approach is to express environmental pressure in different environmental impact categories and determine the contribution to these from energy use. Because not all impact categories are closely linked to energy indicators, the aim and context in which it is used must be apparent. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Chromic oxide (Cr2O3) is an important chemical with numerous industrial applications. The traditional process used for manufacturing chromic oxide from chromite ore has low resources and energy efficiency. Moreover, large quantities of chromium-containing toxic solid wastes are discharged, posing serious pollution concerns. To reduce the environmental impact of this procedure, a new cleaner process was developed by the Institute of Process Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing, PR China, based upon the 3Rs (Reduce, Recycle, Reuse) principles of cleaner production and industrial ecology; this new cleaner process utilizes resources more efficiently, and does not discharge emissions of chromium-containing waste residue. A demonstration plant featuring this process, as well as an Eco-Industrial Park (EIP) has been built in He'nan Province, PR China. The new cleaner process is a promising advancement for the industrial production of chromic oxide (Cr2O3) as well as other chromium compounds such as potassium chromate (K2CrO4) and potassium dichromate (K2Cr2O7). (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Industrial ecology (IE) is an emerging framework adopted in the manufacturing, construction, and process industries to provide innovative solutions in strategic planning, leading to cleaner operation and production. An IE framework integrates a large number of processes, economic constraints, and environmental, health and safety considerations for optimized resource utilization. This paper provides a review of environmental management practices in the mining and minerals industry, emphasizing two concepts: IE and cleaner production. The mining and minerals industry provides pr
imary materials for industrial activities; as such, it is an important component in the "industrial ecosystem." This industry is subject to very stringent social and environmental scrutiny, while providing society with required natural resources to meet essential sustainable development requirements. The implementation of an IE framework in the sector will contribute to sustainable development. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier Ltd.To assure the comparability of the results of the measurements done for the transboundary pollution quantification, the results must to be obtain using standardised/reference methods or own methods which were validated. Accredited until 2002 by RENAR - The Romanian Accreditation Association, in concordance with ISO EN 45001 and ISO Guide 25, Air Pollution Laboratory from National Research and Development Institute for Industrial Ecology - ECOIND will recently obtain the ISO/CEI 17025 accreditation for 37 laboratory tests in the field of emission and air quality measurements. When a laboratory has developed its own methods these method must to be validated that means to asses: the detection limit, the quantification limit, the working range and the linearity, the sensitivity, the recovery and the accuracy (trueness and precision) of the methods. The precision (repeatability and reproducibility) can be estimated/calculated on the results obtained in a collaborative inter-laboratory experiment. The results obtained for the validation of couples chemical methods developed by the laboratory: hydrochloric acid (inorganic chloride compounds), ammonia, chromium(VI), phenol are presented.On the basis of analysis that industrial ecology chain and green supply chain are two models to achieve sustainable development for manufacturing enterprises, this paper gives an explanation that effective supply chain management and industrial ecology chain building are favorable to Industrial Ecology Engineering. Then, the paper mainly compares and analyzes the merits and faults of industrial ecology chain and green supply chain, as in realized form, transaction costs or stability etc., In the meantime, their structure models are established separately. Finally, with the discussion of their merits and faults, the most ideal mode of sustainable development for industrial manufacturing enterprises is that we put two modes together.The concept of industrial ecology (IE) follows the ideal of environmental balanced industrial complexes and perceives an industrial system not apart from its surrounding systems but in interaction with them. The methodological consequence of this assertion is to investigate the flows of materials and energy in industrial cycles and consumer activities, the effects of these flows on the environment and how they are influenced by economic, political, regulatory and social factors, in order to evaluate and, finally, to optimize these flows. Industrial ecology has been developed by engineers and thus the claim for scientific objectivity is strong. Considering political and social factors implies, however, to reflect about changes of operations and attitudes. Therefore one might ask about a methodological connection of engineering skills with political and ethical reasoning. This paper has the objective to argue for such a connection in some domains of industrial ecology. The presumption for the value of this endeavou
r is that IE has a normative potential for the design of a possible sustainable world, which stands next to its advanced technological features. In order to argue for a methodological connection between analytical and argumentative skills, section two and three of this paper will examine sustainable development as a framework for IE and discuss the theoretical basis of the IE concept. Section four and five analyse industrial metabolism as a core principle of IE and discuss IE tools and applications. The sixth section associates empirical and normative elements in IE with help of two domains and three different application levels and exemplifies the possibility for interdisciplinary cooperation within the field. The goal of this association is to make clear that the question today is no longer: Is IE is an objective science or not, but rather: how to assemble methods from the "two cultures" in the most beneficial manner?Industrial Symbiosis (IS) deals with the exchange of byproducts energy, water and emissions among closed situated firms. It is perhaps the best applications of Industrial Ecology. The most prominent examples of industrial symbiosis is Kalundborg in Denmark. Based on the concept of Kalundborg, different countries has employed or designed different IS mode, especially in North America and Europe. Contrary to the many detailed cases in North America and Europe, there are lack of detailed descriptions and figures for some of the IS systems in developing countries. In order to understand the status of the IS developement in developing countries, based on the best avaiable information, we listed some important industrail cases in developing countries for detailed analysis and concluded- some characteristics of developing countries regional industrail symbiosis. The benefits /opportunities and barriers for IS systems development in developing countries were analyzed in detail. This paper also analyzed the synergy complexities for three cases in China, India and Mexico. At the end, we introduced some important international organisations,which had contributed much to the progress of industrial symbiosos in developing countries. The analysis in this paper provides helpful information and guidance for industrail symbiosis systems established in developing countries.A new approach for the understanding and shaping of the evolution of Large Scale Socio-Technical systems is presented. A proof-of-concept knowledge application has been developed, based on the industrial Rotterdam-Rijnmond case. The knowledge application includes the design of a model of industry-infrastructure evolution. Such networks are modeled via a system decomposition, formalization in an ontology and implementation of an Agent Based Model. In simulation runs several network metrics are presented. The results provide insights in real world system behavior and show the validity and potential of the approach.From the perspective of industrial ecology, we make a study of co-evolution to industrial ecosystem on the ground of co-evolution phenomenon and inspiration of biological system in this paper. Then, we mainly analyze the evolutionary game theory, and establish the evolution game model of industrial ecosystem compared with the evolution game theory of complex system theory. Finally, taking pollution prevention of cleaner production technologies as a sample, which wa
s first developed in industrial ecology engineering, we carry on an application study and verify the theoretical method is very effective in practice.Purpose - To provide a comprehensive state of the art review of environmental impact assessment (EIA) of existing rapid prototyping (RP) and rapid tooling (RT), and identify prospective research needs. Design/methodology/approach - The sparse literature on the EIA of RP and RT is balanced by that of the comparatively mature field of industrial ecology (IE). Hence, the review emphasizes portable IE measurement and evaluations methods. As RP and RT can also be viewed as design tools and mass customization manufacturing, other EIA may be needed. Findings - The scarcity of research to date combined with rapid technological advances leaves a large number of unresolved issues. in addition, the special character of RP and RT, as design and manufacturing enablers implies that future research is needed. Research limitations/implicabons - This review is drawn from a technology in rapid evolution. Hence, unresolved issues focus on technologies that already are on the market and the research needs are formulated in terms of state of the art process research. Practical implications - As technological advances multiply, so does the number of unresolved environmental problems. The review of unresolved issues points to a pressing need to assess the consequences of RP and RT while identified research needs point the way to anticipated areas where further assessment methods will be needed. Originality/value - This paper intends to raise awareness about the potential environmental impacts from RP and RT, by presenting the problems associated with current methods for measuring environmental effects and discussing some of the most urgent unresolved issues, specifically with respect to materials. Indirect effects of other uses of RP and RT are discussed only briefly for lack of available data.Cities are a key driver of environmental and climatic change, and at the same time significantly impacted by that change. Vulnerability varies spatially and over time, and the complex relationships among climate, ecosystem health, and socioeconomic development call for an integrated theoretical framework within which to study the world's cities. Advances in the fields of industrial ecology, urban metabolism and urban ecology shed light on these relationships. However, much of the current research is found in the form of case studies. Though detailed and relevant, the lack of a cohesive theory precludes standardization of and comparison between methodical experiments pertaining to the relationship between urban systems and global climate change. Aiming to identify and connect underlying issues, and to drive research forward, this study is a synthesis of key emergent theories and continuities in the body of research surrounding urban systems and global change. Thinking of cities as complex open systems integrated within a larger environmental and social context brings us closer to understanding how cities impact/are impacted by climate change and variability. The physical realism and interdisciplinary nature of a unified urban systems theory will facilitate more grounded and effective policy to shape and govern our cities.Designing an ecologically responsible EcoCity of 550,000 people begins by confining it to 8500 ha, which s
pares surrounding land for farming and for Nature. Because an American diet requires 126,000 ha and even a survival diet needs more cropland than can be found inside its boundaries, EcoCity will cast shadows of farming outside its limits. EcoCitizens will cast wider shadows if farmers grow food with the less intensive methods of simpler times, and they will cast narrower shadows if farmers use the more intensive methods of today. Cheap transportation scatters the shadows that, in the days of oxcarts, Von Thunen imagined would fall in concentric zones of farming and forestry. Industrial ecology, pleasing landscapes, coworkers along its sidewalks, and finally warm fellowships at its tables justify the bother of planning EcoCity. (C) 2006 Published by Elsevier Ltd.In this article, the issue of firms collaborating in the joint representation for sustainable development in urban aeras is examined, by placing it within the problematics of natural resources management. The convergence between urban and economic practices bound to ecological rationality will be emphasised. Then, the definition of collective action integrating the inevitable conflicts on the values that the actors in urban development attach to natural resources will be insisted on. The environmental impacts of a water re-circulating system for fish farming were studied through the case study of an inland turbot farm located in Brittany (France). Life Cycle Assessment methodology was used to evaluate the potential environmental impact through the following indicators: Eutrophication Potential, Acidification Potential, Global Warming Potential, Net Primary Production Use and Non Renewable Energy Use. Two methods were used to assess the farm's nitrogen, phosphorus and solids emissions: nutrient measurement accounting and nutrient balance modelling. The two methods gave similar results for solids and phosphorus emissions, while for nitrogen the measurement-based approach resulted in half the emissions predicted by the model. The uncertainty regarding the potential gaseous nitrogen emissions led us to assess impacts according to three scenarios, differing with respect to emissions of N-2, N2O and NH3. This approach illustrates that the uncertainty concerning nitrogenous emissions to the atmosphere leads to uncertainty with respect to the production system's Eutrophication Potential and its Global Warming Potential. The comparison of our results with similar results for large rainbow trout production in a flow-through system points out the impacts associated with the high level of energy consumption in the studied re-circulating system (i.e. Non Renewable Energy Use, Global Warming potential, Acidification Potential). The nitrogenous gas emissions of re-circulating systems require further studies, in order to precisely identify the substances involved and the technological solutions allowing reduced impacts. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.Aim of this paper is to analyze the performance of an innovative high-efficiency steam power plant by means of two "life cycle approach" methodologies, the life cycle assessment (LCA) and the "extended exergy analysis" (EEA). The plant object of the analysis is a hydrogen-fed steam power plant in which the H-2 is produced by a "zero CO2 emission" coal gasification process (the ZECOTECH (c) cycle). The CO2 capture system is a standard humid-
CaO absorbing process and produces CaCO3 as a by-product, which is then regenerated to CaO releasing the CO2 for a downstream mineral sequestration process. The steam power plant is based on an innovative combined-cycle process: the hydrogen is used as a fuel to produce high-temperature, medium-pressure steam that powers the steam turbine in the topping section, whose exhaust is used in a heat recovery boiler to feed a traditional steam power plant. The environmental performance of the ZECOTECH (c) cycle is assessed by comparison with four different processes: power plant fed by H-2 from natural gas steam reforming, two conventional coal- and natural gas power plants and a wind power plant. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Biofuels are expected to play an increasingly important role in the transportation market, as we search for ways to reduce fossil fuels depletion and emissions. However, the extent to which biofuel can displace petroleum-based fuels depends on the efficiency with which it can be produced. To demonstrate that biofuel has a positive energy balance-i.e. more energy is contained in the fuel than is used in the production-a life-cycle approach must be employed. This paper presents a Life-Cycle Energy Analysis of bioethanol (from sugar beet or wheat) and bioETBE systems in France. Physical and economic data was collected. A systemic description was implemented and the energy used throughout was calculated. A novel indicator aiming at characterizing the renewability of (bio)energy sources is proposed-the energy reneivability efficiency (ERenEt). ERenEf measures the fraction of final fuel energy obtained from renewable sources. Inventory results-calculated using four different allocation approaches and ignoring co-product credits-are analyzed in order to understand the effect of allocation in the energy efficiency and renewability results. Sensitivity analysis shows that allocation has a major influence in the results. This research concludes that bioethanol produced in France is clearly favorable in terms of primary energy. A maximum ERenEf value of 48% was obtained for wheat-based ethanol (mass allocation), meaning that 48% of the biofuel energy content is indeed renewable energy. Fossil energy savings when gasoline is displaced by bioethanol, bioETBE or E5 are calculated. In particular, pure bioethanol may save up to 0.70 MJ, depending on whether wheat or sugar beet is used and on the allocation procedure adopted. (c) 2006 Published by Elsevier Ltd.Sustainable management of materials and products requires continuous evaluation of numerous complex social, ecological, and economic factors. A number of tools and methods are emerging to support this. One of the most rigorous is life-cycle assessment (LCA), But LCAs often lack a sustainability perspective and bring about difficult trade-offs between specificity and depth, on the one hand, and comprehension and applicability, on the other. This article applies a framework for strategic sustainable development (often referred to as The Natural Step (TNS) framework) based on backcasting from basic principles for sustainability. The aim is to foster a new general approach to the management of materials and products, here termed "strategic life-cycle management." This includes informing the overall analysis with aspects that are relevant to a basic perspective on (1) sustain
ability, and (2) strategy to arrive at sustainability The resulting overview is expected to help avoid costly assessments of flows and practices that are not critical from a sustainability and/or strategic perspective and to help identify strategic gaps in knowledge or potential problems that need further assessment. Early experience indicates that the approach can complement some existing tools and concepts by informing them from a sustainability perspective-for example, current product development and LCA tools.Three established life-cycle inventories of agricultural operations were used to generate air emissions data for soybean production: the greenhouse gases, regulated emissions, and energy use in transportation (GREET) model; the economic input-output life-cycle assessment (EIO-LCA) model; and SimaPro software equipped with the Franklin database. EIO-LCA and GREET baseline data were compared to evaluate differences in boundary definitions that apply specifically to U.S. soybean agriculture and processing, which resulted in several major findings. The DO model estimated for emissions of particulate matter less than 10 micrograms (PM10) resulting from wind erosion that were not included in GREET, but neglected indirect nitrous oxide (N2O) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions from fertilizer application. DO also assumed significantly lower process energy requirements and lower volatile organic compounds (VOC) for soybean crushing and oil extraction. The GREET and SimaPro models were compared using identical boundary and assumption data, to reveal major discrepancies in fundamental assumptions of energy inventories. Key emission factors varied by several orders of magnitude for basic energy generation and combustion processes, potentially impacting results for any inventory analysis that contains significant energy consumption. The Franklin database assumed VOC and sulfur oxides (SO2) emissions more than an order of magnitude higher than GREET for all categories investigated, with significantly lower N2O and methane (CH4) emission factors.Water and energy are two primary natural resources used by building occupants. A life-cycle assessment (LCA) is performed for water-consuming plumbing fixtures and water-consuming appliances during their operational life for four different building types. Within the cycle studied, water is extracted from the natural environment, subjected to water treatment, pumped to buildings for use, collected for wastewater treatment, and discharged back to the natural environment. Specifically, the impacts of water use, electricity and natural gas generation, energy consumption (for water and wastewater treatment, and for water heating), and the manufacture of water and wastewater treatment chemicals are evaluated both quantitatively and qualitatively on a generalized national level in the United States of America. It is concluded that water use and consumption within buildings have a much larger impact on resource consumption than the water and wastewater treatment stages of the life cycle. To study this more specifically, the resource consumption of four different building types-an apartment building, a college dormitory, a motel, and an office building-is considered. Of these four building types, the apartment has the highest energy consumption (for water and wastewater treatment, and for water heating) per vol
ume of water used, whereas the office building has the lowest. Similarly, the calculated LCA score for the apartment building is typically greater than those of the other three building types.Ecological footprints (EF) have been used for more than 15 yr as an aggregate measure of sustainability of geographical regions, but also for certain products and activities. EF analysis measures the bioproductive areas required to produce resources such as crops and timber, the directly occupied areas for infrastructure, and areas for absorbing waste flows (mostly limited to carbon dioxide) in a given year for a defined population. The need to extend ecological footprint analysis to electronic products arose because so far, mobile phones have mainly been evaluated using life-cycle assessments with a focus on toxicity, end-of-life management, and energy use, thus ignoring the wider sustainability implications. This article presents the footprint results from three mobile phone case studies. To establish the land areas consumed by the mined materials used in electronic products, a database was developed based on literature data and on approximations from the density and overburden of materials. The relationship between abundance and overburden values was used in a regression analysis to estimate energy requirements in materials extraction where other data were not available. Using a life-cycle assessment approach, environmental burdens for producing and using a mobile phone were calculated and transformed into the instantaneous rate of resource consumption. Key results were that different electronic products have different ecological footprints and that the methodology proved sensitive enough to reveal differences in small electronic products and for monitoring technologies that use bioproductive space efficiently.Design and construction industries, along with owners, have an increasing interest in and responsibility for the environmental impacts of buildings. Since the environmental impacts of a building's life cycle are considerable, quantification of all phases is important, especially the construction phase, which is often glossed over. This research focuses on the construction phase of a building project. Generally, the life-cycle inventory created in performing a life-cycle assessment (LCA) is developed using either a process or input-output approach; however, both techniques have distinct advantages and disadvantages. A hybrid approach combining both methods' advantages has been proposed and will be demonstrated. Existing hybrid models are reviewed, along with a recommendation of a hybrid model for construction. A preliminary case study of a precast concrete parking garage's construction using hybrid LCA methodology is presented. Preliminary investigations indicate transportation, equipment activity, and support functions have the largest effects on the environment.This article reviews the public health and environmental regulations applicable to nanotechnology using a life cycle model from basic research through end-of-life for products. Given nanotechnology's immense promise and public investment, regulations are important, balancing risk with the public good. Trading zones and earth systems engineering management assist in explaining potential solutions to gaps in an otherwise complex, overlapping regulatory system.Eco-efficiency is critical
 for organisations that seek to be both environmentally conscious and profitable. It helps to "produce more out of less" to avoid wasting natural resources and to reduce emissions and damage to the environment. The textile coating and laminating industry, utilising solvent or water-based polymeric mixtures, is one of the industries coming under extreme environmental pressure to replace traditional procedures and use eco-efficient coating agents. In this study, eco-efficiency analysis was used to compare the eco-effectiveness of two different coating agents, polyacrylate and polyurethane, each in organic solution as well as aqueous dispersion forms. The "ecological fingerprint" and eco-efficiency portfolio were graphically illustrated for these coating agents based on the customer benefit, defined as coating one square meter of a textile fabric in a conventional laminating unit. According to the analysis results, polyacrylate dispersion in water was the most eco-efficient coating agent whilst polyurethane resin dissolved in organic solvent was found as the coating agent with the least acceptability as an eco-efficient product.Recently, some activities for environmental protection have been attempted to reduce environmental burdens in many fields. The manufacturing field also requires such reduction. Hence, a prediction system for environmental burden for machining operation is proposed based on the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) policy for the future manufacturing system in this research. This system enables the calculation of environmental burden (equivalent CO2 emission) due to the electric consumption of machine tool components, cutting tool status, coolant quantity, lubricant oil quantity and metal chip quantity, and provides accurate information of environmental burden of the machining process by considering some activities related to machine tool operation. In this paper, the development of the prediction system is described. As a case study, two Numerical Control (NC) programs that manufacture a simple shape are evaluated to show the feasibility of the proposed system.Recently, each country has been trying to promote Eco-Industrial Park (EIP) development for industrial sustainability. Technological modeling is required to realize EIP practically even though the project contains the political concerns for many companies, government, and self-governing bodies. The four main technologies of the EIP developments include energy exchange, material flow analysis, water pinch, and life cycle assessment. Material flow analysis (MFA) methodology can be utilized in EIP modeling in view of the fact that the analysis of material flows and the optimized modeling are major purposes for the technological modeling of EIP. Through MFA methodology in POHANG EIP project, how to apply MFA modeling to EIP modeling and how to utilize software for MFA modeling are shown in this research.A review covering biodiesel life cycle assessment, energy in/output at FAME production, and CO2 balance sheet concerning rapeseed vegetation (C passing into atm., soil, roots, seeds and oil, and consumed by microorganisms). Emission of CO2 in prepg. a blodiesel is estd. at 3.22 kg/kg biodiesel (+ ca. 0.7 kg/kg in the agricultural area).This paper detailed introduces the related work for building Chinese National Database, Sinocenter, of materials life cycle assessment (MLCA) a
nd developing the environmental burden dataset of materials. The MLCA database was built in 2004, and the basic framework mainly includes LCA methodology, materials environmental dataset about energy consumption, resource input and environmental emissions. Nowadays, the database contains about fifty-thousand records of the main materials industries, such as cement, iron and steel, nonferrous metal, etc., and also includes the primary LCI data of fossil fuels and electricity grid in China. At the same time, the LCA method localization work is going on, for instance, calculated the resource characterization factors of 42 kinds of metal and 58 sorts of nonmetal, and also obtained some heavy metal impact factors in water. Based on the database, the iron and steel dataset has been developed with the data quality analysis, and some environmental burden data could be queried in our website, www. cnmlca. com, in the future. Lastly, according to the framework of the ISO 14040 series standards, the antitype of Chinese LCA evaluation system was developed to support materials and products LCA evaluation in China.Biological and mechanical treatment (BMT) is a newly developed integrated municipal solid waste (MSW) management pretreatment process. Based on recommended BMT-based integrated MSW management system, life cycle assessment is employed to compare the environmental impact potential (EIP) of three BMT based waste treatment strategies (BMT-compost, BMT incineration and BMT landfill) with traditional landfill and incineration in Pudong New Area of Shanghai. The results show that the incineration process of MSW presents the highest acidification potential, and landfill presents both the highest global warming potential and eutrophication potential. Meanwhile, EIP of BMT-compost, BMT-incineration and BMT landfill are all decreased greatly when BMT technology is introduced into municipal solid waste management. The total environmental impact potential (TEIP) of landfill is 1.5 times larger than that of BMT-landfill. And the TEIP of incineration is also 1.5 times larger than that of BMT incineration while the TEIP of BMT compost is the lowest. The result verifies that BMT-based MSW management model would be environmentally reasonable and helpful to develop integrated MSW management system in Pudong. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Common maintenance strategies applied to wind turbines include 'Time- Based' which involves carrying out maintenance tasks at predetermined regular-intervals and 'FailureBased' which entails using a wind turbine until it fails. However, the consequence of failure of critical components limits the adequacy of these strategies to support the current commercial drivers of the wind industry. Reliability-Centred Maintenance (RCM) is a technique used mostly to select appropriate maintenance strategies for physical assets. In this paper, a hybrid of an RCM approach and Asset Life-Cycle Analysis technique is applied to Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines to identify possible failure modes, causes and the resultant effects on system operation. The failure consequences of critical components are evaluated and expressed in financial terms. Suitable Condition-Based Maintenance activities are identified and assessed over the life-cycle of wind turbines to maximise the return on investment in wind farms.The objective of this study is 
to put forward a full analysis of the impact of the difference between the Canadian and American energy realities on the life cycle of fuel cell vehicles and internal combustion engine vehicles. Electricity is a major type of energy used in the transportation sector. Electricity is needed in the production of feedstock of fuel, the production of the fuel, the production of the vehicle material and the assembly of the vehicles. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate the impact of the electricity mix difference between Canada and the United States. In the analysis, the life cycle of the fuel consists of obtaining the raw material, extracting the fuel from the raw material, transporting and storing the fuel as well as using the fuel in the vehicle. Four different methods of obtaining hydrogen were analyzed; using coal and nuclear power to produce electricity and extract hydrogen through electrolysis and via steam reforming of natural gas in a natural gas plant and in a hydrogen refueling station. It is found that fuel cell vehicle fuelled by hydrogen has lower energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions than internal combustion engine vehicle fuelled by conventional gasoline except for hydrogen production using coal as the primary energy source in Canada and the United States. Using the Canadian electricity mix will result in lower carbon dioxide emissions and energy consumption than using the American electricity mix. For the present vehicles, using the Canadian electricity mix will save up to 215.18 GJ of energy and 20.87 t Of CO2 on a per capita basis and 26.53 GJ of energy and 6.8 t Of CO2 on a per vehicle basis. Similarly, for the future vehicles, using the Canadian electricity mix will lower the total carbon dioxide emissions by 21.15 t and the energy consumed is reduced by 218.49 GJ on a per capita basis and 26.53 GJ of energy and 7.22 t Of CO2 on a per vehicle basis. The well-to-tank efficiencies are higher with the Canadian electricity mix. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.An environmental study using life cycle assessment (LCA) has been applied to three bench-scale wastewater treatments for Cibacron Red FN-R hetero-bireactive dye removal: artificial light photo-Fenton process, solar driven photo-Fenton process and artificial light photo-Fenton process coupled to a biological treatment. The study is focused on electricity and chemicals consumption, transports and atmosphere and water emissions generated by the different processes involved. Results show that the artificial light photo-Fenton process is the worst treatment in terms of environmental impact. On the other hand, both solar driven and coupled to biological photo-Fenton processes reduce significantly the environmental damage, although none can be identified as the best in all impact categories. The major environmental impact is attributed to the H2O2 consumption and to the electrical energy consumption to run the UVA lamp. An economic analysis of the different photo-Fenton processes has also been performed and the results are discussed together with those obtained from the environmental assessment. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The study fills a gap in existing literature by comparing process-based and EIO-based life cycle assessment (LCA) methods empirically in service industries. Despite the numerous methodological differences, the methods we
re found mostly to produce the same environmentally significant processes for the case organization: the use of electricity in the premises, the construction of the premises, the business travel by cars, the heating of the premises, and the business flights. However, the process-based LCA could not be used to assess the environmental impacts of purchased services properly. The study also recognized most of the theoretical differences listed in the literature, and found the ones related to the cut-offs in purchased services, the price inhomogeneity, and the industry-atypical electricity production have the greatest influence on results.Energy use is one of the key indicators for developing more sustainable agricultural practices. For this reason, energy use in the production of conventional and organic milk and rye bread in Finland was studied by conducting a life cycle inventory (LCI). The product systems of milk and rye bread consisted of farming, production of fuels, electricity and fertilisers, as well as the processing phases of milk and bread, i.e. the dairy and the bakery. Transportation of fuels, raw materials and the final products was also taken into account. Primary energy consumption was 6.4 GJ in average conventional milk production and 4.4 GJ in average organic milk production, calculated per 1000 1 of milk. For rye bread the values were 15.3 GJ (conventional) and 13.3 GJ (organic) per 1000 kg of rye bread. The proportion of renewable energy in the product systems studied,varied between 7 and 16% of the total primary energy use, being somewhat higher in organic production. In milk production, energy use efficiency can be increased, by favouring organic production. Making changes in the energy use patterns of bakeries would be the fastest way to affect the energy profile of bread, because bakery is responsible for 70 and 80% of the total energy consumption in conventional and organic bread production, respectively. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This paper discusses the potential of bamboo as a building material for Western countries. In the study presented, bamboo culms were environmentally and financially assessed and compared to building materials more common in Western Europe, e.g., steel, concrete and timber. Furthermore, a case study was done of temporary European bamboo buildings, structures and bridges, in order to determine factors of success and failure of building with bamboo. This paper presents the results of these studies, which indicate that within certain boundary conditions and with consideration of the recommendations following the case study, bamboo is a very sustainable building material for Western countries and can be competitive to materials more commonly used. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.By means of energetic life cycle assessment, innovative fuel cell (FC) powertrain systems and the respective fuels are examined and compared with conventional systems. The basis for this research is process chain analyses for the supply of conventional and alternative fuels at the point of consumption in Germany, e.g. compressed natural gas, methanol or hydrogen. To complete the integrated view, the use of these fuels in vehicles with internal combustion engines and FCs is examined. Within the scope of this study, special attention is paid to a system breakdown and energetic assessment of the 
FC powertrain. For the purpose of a full life cycle assessment, energy requirements and CO2-emissions for the production, maintenance and disposal of the vehicles are included. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The energetic utilisation of agricultural residues is considered to be an important element in any strategy to achieve renewable energy targets. In the approximately 80 cane-sugar producing countries there is potential to make better use of the fibrous residue known as bagasse. Subject to improved energy efficiency, sugar producers could supply energy either as "green", co-generated electricity, or as fuel ethanol through cellulose hydrolysis followed by fermentation. This paper compares their projected environmental benefits from a life-cycle perspective, using South African data. Mass and energy analyses were prepared for the two systems and a base case (producing sugar with current methods), relative to the annual sugarcane production on one hectare. In both cases, the environmental burdens avoided by replacing an equivalent amount of fossil energy were included. The results obtained confirm that for all the impact categories considered, both "bioenergy" products result in environmental benefits. The cogeneration option results in lower energy-related emissions (i.e. lower global warming, acidification and eutrophication potentials), whereas the fuel ethanol option is preferred in terms of resource conservation (since it is assumed to replace oil not coal), and also scores better in terms of human and eco-toxicity if assumed to replace lead-bearing oxygenates. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.How much carbon was emitted due to consumption of electricity in each US state in 1999? This paper presents three alternative methods for answering this question, each of which is conceptually sound and sums to the same national total, yet each produces very different estimates of individual state emissions. These differences result from alternative assumptions taken to account for emissions associated with interstate electricity trade-power, and hence emissions, produced in one state but consumed in another. The methods described here demonstrate large effects that alternative methodological choices can have on our understanding of a state's carbon emissions levels, and on the incentive structures for states to enact supply and/or demand-side carbon reduction policies. Of the three methodologies, one is characteristic of standard carbon emissions accounting practice, one of life-cycle assessment, and one is an integrated approach, of which I argue that it is superior because it registers state carbon emissions change arising from change in both electricity production and consumption, thus creating incentive for states to enact a full range of progressive energy policies. Though developed here at the state scale, the issues engaged are relevant to carbon analysis and policy formation at scales ranging from the local to the international. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The focus in environmental research is shifting from emission abatement to critical process analysis, including assessment of resource consumption. The exergy theory offers a thermodynamic methodology to account for the consumption of natural resources. However, exergy data on mineral resources available in the literature are inadequate to apply 
to exergetic life cycle analysis, due to incompleteness, inconsistencies, and a dated thermochemical basis. An uncertainty assessment of the data has to be performed as well. In this work, three recent thermochemical databases were applied to evaluate the chemical exergy of 85 elements and 73 minerals, 21 of which had not yet been quantified in the literature. The process required the choice of a new reference species for aluminum. Muscovite was selected, giving rise to a chemical exergy of 809.4 kJ/mol for aluminum. The theory proved to be robust for the exergy of chemical elements, as exergy values differing by 1.2% on average from most recent literature were found. On the contrary, the exergy values for minerals differed by factors up to 14 from literature values, due to the application of recent thermochemical values and consistently selected reference species. The consistent dataset of this work will enable straightforward resource intake evaluation through an exergetic life cycle assessment.Environmental impact assessment (EIA) problems are often characterised by a large number of identified environmental factors that are qualitative in nature and can only be assessed on the basis of human judgments, which inevitably involve various types of uncertainties such as ignorance and fuzziness. So, EIA problems need to be modelled and analysed using methods that can handle uncertainties. The evidential reasoning (ER) approach provides such a modelling framework and analysis method. In this paper the ER approach will be applied to conduct EIA analysis for the first time. The environmental impact consequences are characterized by a set of assessment grades that are assumed to be collectively exhaustive and mutually exclusive. All assessment information,. quantitative or qualitative, complete or incomplete, and precise or imprecise, is modelled using a unified framework of a belief structure. The original ER approach with a recursive ER algorithm will be introduced and a new analytical ER algorithm will be investigated which provides a means for using the ER approach in decision situations where an explicit ER aggregation function is needed such as in optimisation problems. The ER approach will be used to aggregate multiple environmental factors, resulting in an aggregated distributed assessment for each alternative policy. A numerical example and its modified version are studied to illustrate the detailed implementation process of the ER approach and demonstrate its potential applications in EIA. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Assessing public utilities, such as urban water systems, can be extremely complicated because of the difficulties in quantifying system attributes. A framework for developing and aggregating performance indicators can assist the measurement and assessment process. In this article, research involving an integrated set of performance indicators applied to the urban water system of Tehran, Iran, is discussed. Specifically, a fuzzy inference model was used to aggregate indicators into an overall system-performance index, which can be used to make comparisons among a large number of competing water system alternatives. The approach proposed in this article can also be applied to the assessment of other urban public utilities.The nuclear energy driven thermochemical cycle is one of the potential water-splitting p
rocesses for producing hydrogen, presumed to be the transportation fuel of the future. A life cycle assessment (LCA) of one such system, which utilizes nuclear energy to drive the ISPRA Mark 9 thermochemical cycle, is presented in this paper. The results of the LCA are presented in terms of the emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2-equivalent) and acid gases (SO2-equivalent). The contributions of the thermochernical plant to the emissions were determined through the estimation of material and energy requirements for chemical inventory, raw materials consumption and plant fabrication/installation. The greenhouse gas emissions from the system are 2515 g CO2-equivalent kg(-1) H-2 produced and acid gas emissions 11.252 g SO2-equivalent kg(-1) H-2 produced. A comparison of this hydrogen production route with other routes, including steam reforming of methane and high-temperature electrolysis, is also presented in the paper. (c) 2006 Society of Chemical IndustryMembrane technology is being increasingly used in the treatment of waters and wastewaters. The two main costs associated with the adoption of membrane filtration are the membrane module cost and the energy cost. Tradeoffs between selection of membrane capital cost and energy cost are usually identified for process optimisation; however, environmental tradeoffs associated with different operating conditions have received less attention. In order to ensure the sustainable use of membrane filtration, environmental considerations should also influence the choice of operating conditions. Here, we report on application of the method of life cycle assessment (LCA) to assess the environmental performance of different operating conditions of a microfiltration membrane (MF) process. Different membrane chemical cleaning options are compared in the sensitivity analysis component of the study. The results show that operating the MF process at a low flux with a high maximum transmembrane pressure (TMPmax) offers the most environmentally favourable outcome. The sensitivity analysis results show that in the low flux range, the choice of chemical cleaning frequency can affect the overall environmental performance of the process. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Microgeneration is being promoted as a means of lowering carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by replacing electricity from the grid with production from small domestic generators. One concern over this drive is that the use of smaller plant could lead to the loss of economies of scale. Partly, this relates to cost but also in terms of energy consumed and CO2 emitted over the life cycle of the microgenerator. Here, an analysis is presented of a life-cycle audit of the energy use and CO2 emissions for the 'SWIFT', a 1.5 kW rooftop-mounted, grid-connected wind turbine. The analysis shows that per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated by the turbine, the energy intensity and CO2 emissions are comparable with larger wind turbines and significantly lower than fossil-fuelled generation. With energy and carbon intensities sensitive to assumed levels of production, assessments were carried out for an annual production range of 1000-4000 kWh, representing capacity factors of 8-31 per cent. For the manufacturer's estimated production of 2000 to 3000 kWh and, giving credit for component recycling, the energy payback period was found to be between 17 and 25
 months, whereas the CO2 payback was between 13 and 20 months. Across the full production range, the energy and carbon payback periods were 13-50 months and 10-39 months, respectively. A key outcome of the study is to inform the manufacturer of the opportunities for improving the energy and carbon intensities of the turbine. A simple example is presented showing the impact of replacing one of the larger aluminium components with alternative materials.LCA is used for the assessment of opportunities to improve the environmental performance of newsprint production. A cradle-to-gate LCA baseline model for the production of I admt newsprint from TMP and DIP was developed, and used to examine the impact from increased DIP production capacity and co-generation. It was found that a 20-40% reduction in Global Warming Potential could be achieved, and the fuel mix for power generation was found to be a critical factor.A life cycle assessment (LCA) is performed in this study in order to evaluate the environmental implications of the management of the fermentable fraction of waste in the Barcelona Metropolitan Area (BMA), comparing the present management system with the system proposed for the future. The energy and water consumption were quantified, as well as the used area and the emissions to the atmosphere and water. The software TRACI was used in order to assess the potential impact on the categories of acidification, eutrophication, toxicity and harm to the human health (under the criteria of cancer, non-cancer and pollutants), global warming, depletion of the ozone layer, formation of photochemical smog, water use, land use and fossil fuel use. The results show that the management system proposed for the future reduces 7 out of the 12 potential impacts analyzed, due mainly to the change in the technology of landfill (baling-wrapping landfill). However, this system requires of further research to assess the impacts on a long term. The worst option for biowaste management is the traditional landfill, based on the multibarrier concept. The results of this work suggest that the future biowaste management system is better in environmental terms than the present system. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.A comparative life cycle assessment (LCA) of two solar-driven advanced oxidation processes, namely heterogeneous semiconductor photocatalysis and homogeneous photo-Fenton, both coupled to biological treatment, is carried out in order to identify the environmentally preferable alternative to treat industrial wastewaters containing nonbiodegradable priority hazardous substances. The study is based on solar pilot plant tests using alpha-methyl-phenylglycine as a target substance. The LCA study is based on the experimental results obtained, along with data from an industrial-scale plant. The system under study includes production of the plant infrastructure, chemicals, electricity, transport of all these materials to the plant site, management of the spent catalyst by transport and landfilling, as well as treatment of the biodegradable effluent obtained in a conventional municipal wastewater treatment plant, and excess sludge treatment by incineration. Nine environmental impact categories are included in the LCA: global warming, ozone depletion, human toxicity, freshwater aquatic toxicity, photochemical ozone formation, acidification, eutrophicat
ion, energy consumption, and land use. The experimental results obtained in the pilot plant show that solar photo-Fenton is able to obtain a biodegradable effluent much faster than solar heterogeneous photocatalysis, implying that the latter would require a much larger solar collector area in an industrial application. The results of the LCA show that, an industrial wastewater treatment plant based on heterogeneous photocatalysis involves a higher environmental impact than the photo-Fenton alternative, which displays impact scores 80-90% lower in most impact categories assessed. These results are mainly due to the larger size of the solar collector field needed by the plant. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Sizing agents, belonging to the group of functional chemicals, represent the second largest group after the coating binder of specialty chemicals for the paper manufacturing. Rosin size, Alkylketendimer(AKD), Alkenylsuccinicanhydride (ASA) and Polymeric Sizing Agents (PSA) are the main representatives of that group. The aim of this paper is to wrap up the information of preceding articles published in this serie supplemented with newer insights and to give an overview of the fate and behaviour of sizing agents in the environment. Rosin size, AKD and ASA are traditionally added to the wet end, which subsequently results in an product retention which is strongly dependent on the wire retention of the Paper Machine. Solely PSA which was developed ad hoc for the purpose of surface treatment is retained quantitatively with the produced paper The continuance of wet end sizing agents in paper vary under compliance with technical parameters between 70 to 90 % and thus result in an ecologically reasonable and gentle utilisaztion of resources Sometimes the yield is deliberately much lower also sometimes it happens to be much lower unbeknownst to somebody. The life cycle assessment depends for AKD and ASA strongly on the effective use and a low level of undesired interactions. The common understanding that AKD and ASA were known as low respectively not biodegradeable has changend recently. Newest investigation on AKD showed that this substance is biodegradeable when tested under application relevant conditions. Subsequently the former labeling for this product class could be abolished. To what extend this correlates with A SA is so far not experimentally proven under OECD relevant conditions but from the chemical constitution it can be concluded by analogy that it should even be better biologically disposable. For all wet end sizing agents the destination in the effluent show values below 1 %, in the case of surface sizing agents a changeover to the effluent is negligible and product residues leave the Mill only attached on solid material.Rainbow trout is economically the most important cultivated fish in Finland. In this study, new knowledge on the energy consumption, emissions and environmental impacts caused by the production of rainbow trout in Finland was generated. Methodologically the work was based on life cycle assessment (LCA) beginning from the extraction of raw materials and ending with the delivery of gutted fish to the retailers or for further processing. The environmental performances of production methods with different feeds, feed coefficients and technical emission reduction measures were assessed. The environmental im
pact assessment revealed that atmospheric emissions - originating mainly from the feed raw material production, feed manufacturing and transportation - make only a minor contribution to the total environmental impacts caused by the production of rainbow trout in Finland. Phosphorus and nitrogen emissions from fish farms to waters are the most significant emissions from the point of view of the total environmental impacts. By using new, environmentally friendly feeds with increased feed efficiency it is possible to decrease the nitrogen and phosphorus loads significantly. Technical measures to decrease nutrient emissions to the waters reduce the phosphorus load but have only a minor effect on nitrogen. Energy consumption and the use of renewable energy sources proved to be one of the key indicators for developing more sustainable aquacultural practices in Finland, although the major share of energy consumption associated with the production of rainbow trout takes place outside Finland.Life cycle assessment (LCA) involves assessment of resource consumption and emissions caused by the provision of a given service over the whole life cycle of the products it involves, from the cradle to the grave. The quantification of exchanges with the environment during the life cycle of a product or service is a specific element of LCA termed life cycle inventory (LCI). Estimation of chemical emissions in agricultural LCA is typically based on standard emission factors which at best are determined by a few physical-chemical substance properties and the use scenario of the chemical compound. Dynamic and realistic models capable of predicting compartment specific mode of entry fractions for various chemicals and uses under specific temporal and use circumstances are scarce. This lack of appropriate models to estimate emission fractions results in a lower accuracy when accounting for one of the major corner stones in any LCA, chemical emissions, and it inevitably influences the outcome of the impact assessment, where the environmental impacts are normally assumed proportional to the emissions in LCA. PestLCI is a modular model for estimation of pesticide emissions from field application to the different environmental compartments. It estimates the fractions of the applied quantity which is emitted to the air, surface water, and groundwater compartment based on information which will normally be available to the model user about: type and time of application, crop species and development stage, geological and meteorological conditions and the area of application, and properties of the active ingredients of the pesticide. The use and capability of the model is illustrated through two realistic Danish case studies, but the modular structure of the model will allow adaptation to conditions valid for other regions of the world. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.A life cycle assessment (LCA) type method was used to quantify greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions from Irish suckler-beef production. The methodology was used as a systems analysis tool to quantify GHG emissions from a typical Irish beef production system and to evaluate a number of alternative management scenarios. The LCA methodology can be used to decide whether a management strategy will reduce GHG emissions or transfer them elsewhere in the emission basket. Scenarios were developed that examine
d using both beef-bred animals (Charolais, Simmental and Limousin) and dairy-bred animals (Holstein-Fresian). By scaling total GHG emissions relative to a functional unit (FU) of live weight per year (kg CO2 kg LW yr(-1)), it was possible to estimate both the emissions and the potential for emissions reduction by adopting alternative management. The typical suckler-beef system was estimated to produce 11.26 kg CO2 LW yr(-1). For beef-bred animals the cow contributed a large amount to the total emissions whereas for dairy-bred beef production the allocation from the cow was much less. In terms of dietary supplementation for GHG emissions reduction, a broad range of supplement combinations were evaluated and showed no major reduction potential compared to, or within, the grass-dominated system. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Social, technological, economic and environmental issues should be considered comprehensively for the evaluation of global-warming mitigation options. Existing integrated assessment models include assessment of quantitative factors; however, these models do not explicitly consider interactions among qualitative factors in the background - for example, introductions of nuclear power stations interact with social acceptability. In this paper, we applied a technological forecasting method - the cross-impact method - which explicitly deals with the relationships among relevant factors, and we then developed narrative scenarios having consistency with qualitative social contexts. An example of developed scenarios in 2050, assuming the global population and the gross domestic product are the same as those of the A1 scenario of the IPCC Special Report on Emissions Scenarios, tells us that: (1) the Internet will be extensively used in all regions; (2) the global unified market will appear; (3) regional cultures will tend to converge; (4) long-term investments (of more than 30 years) will become difficult and therefore nuclear-power stations will not increase so remarkably; (5) the self-sufficient supply and diversification of primary energy sources will not progress so rapidly; and (6) due to the widespread use of the Internet, people will be more educated in global environmental issues and environmental costs will be more socially acceptable. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper introduces a novel design and performance prediction tool for the ground source heat pump (GSHP) system. This tool features, a user-friendly interface for data input and graphical output. First, an outline of this tool was described. Next, the authors validated temperature variation calculated by theoretical method of the developed tool compared with one measured in the thermal response test. The thermal response test was carried out in a house garden in Sapporo. Giving the calculated conditions, the calculated temperature variation almost traced the measured value. The developed tool's preciseness was proved with the results. In final, performance prediction and feasibility study of a residential GSHP system in Sapporo was performed with this tool as an example. Results of the calculations show that the life cycle CO2 emission (LCCO2) of the GSHP system is 2038 kg-CO2/year and it is less than half compared to conventional oil boiler systems. Also, the GSHP system can reduce life cycle cost (LCC) by 50,000-90,000 Japanese-y
en/year. The payback time for increased investment cost of the GSHP system is about 9-14 years in comparison with other conventional systems. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In this work, a comparison of the commonly deployed commercial desalination technologies worldwide-multistage flash (MSF), multieffect evaporation and reverse osmosis (RO)-is assessed by applying life cycle analysis (LCA). LCA, a powerful, and internationally accepted tool used to examine environmental cradle-to-grave consequences of making and using products and services, identifies and quantifies energy and material usage and waste discharges. The International Standard Organization (ISO) 14000 impact factors, which are internationally accepted standard indicators for environmental impact assessment, have been evaluated, and different evaluation methods (Centre for Environmental Studies (CML) 2 baseline 2000, Eco-Points 97 and Eco-Indicator 99) have been applied to different scenarios. The assessment includes the entire life cycle of each desalination process, encompassing extraction and processing raw materials, manufacturing, transportation and distribution, plant operation and final reject disposal. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.CO2 fixation technologies such as mineral sequestration-that is, the storage of CO2 as carbonate rocks-are beginning to emerge as means to mitigate global climatic change. In this study, the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach is applied to quantify the effective systemwide environmental impacts of CO2 sequestration in mineral rocks. Five alternative processes for mineral sequestration are compared in combination with various CO2 recovery technologies. SimaPro's Eco-indicator ' 99 ("Hierarchist-Average" version) is used for generating the impact assessment results and sensitivity analysis was carried out to compare the results with other possible weighting options. Finally, the sequestration effectiveness parameter was calculated for the various combinations of CO2 recovery and mineral sequestration options.Goal, Scope and Background. Societal assessment is advocated as one of the three pillars in the evaluation of, and movement toward, sustainability. As is the case with the well established LCA, and the emerging LCC, societal life cycle assessment should be developed in such as way as to permit relative product comparisons, rather than absolute analyses. The development of societal life cycle assessment is in its infancy, and important concepts require clarification including the handling of the more than two hundred social indicators. Therefore, any societal life cycle assessment methodology must explain why it is midpoint- or endpoint-based as well as its reasons to be complimentary with, or included within, life cycle assessment. Methods. A geographically specific midpoint based societal life cycle assessment methodology, which employs labour hours as an intermediate variable in the calculation has been developed and evaluated against an existing LCA comparing two detergents. The methodology is based on using an existing life cycle inventory and, therefore, has identical system boundaries and functional units to LCA. The societal life cycle assessment methodology, much like LCA, passes from inventory, through characterisation factors, to provide an ultimate result. In analogy to economics and cost estimation,
 societal life cycle assessment combines, into its statistics, both data as well as estimates, some of which are correlated to elements of the LCI. It focuses on the work hours required to meet basic needs. Results. The societal life cycle assessment of an appended case study indicates that Detergent 2 generates, relative Detergent 1, approximately 20% less employment in Russia, 35% less in France, and approximately five times more in Canada and South Africa, the latter derived from its higher aluminium content. There is essentially no difference in the employment in the use country (Switzerland) nor in Morocco, where some of the waste disposal was assumed to take place. Discussion. Given that housing is more affordable, in terms of shelter units per labour hour, in South Africa, compared to Europe, it is, therefore, of no surprise that Detergent 2 provides a societal benefit in terms of housing. Detergent 2 does, however, result in dematerialization, in that its environmental impact is lower (LCI). Therefore, as less resources are employed and labour required, in extraction, production and transport, the societal benefits in health care, education and necessities, a grouped variable, are lower for Detergent 2. This is despite the employment shift away from Europe and to less 'developed' regions. Conclusions. The assessment of societal impacts involves several hundred specific indicators. Therefore, aggregation is, if not impossible, at least heavily value laden and, therefore, not recommended. The impact of a societal action, derived from a product purchase or otherwise, is also highly local. Given this, societal life cycle assessment, carried through to the midpoints, and based on an existing LCI, has been developed as a methodology. The results, for an existing LCA-detergent case, illustrate that societal life cycle assessment provides a means to investigate how policy and policy makers can be linked to sustainable development. The sensitivity analyses also clarify the decisions in regards to product improvement. Recommendations and Perspectives. The goal of societal life cycle assessment is not to make decisions, but rather to point out tradeoffs to decision- or policy-makers. This case, and the methodology that it is based on, permit such a comparison. Substituting Detergent 2 for Detergent 1 reduces resource use at the expense of an increase in atmospheric and terrestrial emissions. Access to housing is improved, though at the expense of education, health care and necessities. As a recommendation, one would look at the fact that the majority of indicators are superior for Detergent 2 relative to Detergent land seek to improve the aqueous emissions in Detergent 2 via a change in the formulation. An energy or fossil fuel substitution at the site of production could also improve the societal benefits in terms of education and health care. While societal life cycle assessment remains in its infancy, a methodology does exist. The field can, therefore, be viewed in a similar way to LCA in the early 1990s, with a need to validate, consolidate and, ultimately, built toward a standard. The contribution is aimed at contributing to such a discussion and therefore proposes that a societal life cycle assessment be LCI-derived, geographically specific, based on mid-points, and use employment as an intermediate variable.Goal, Scope and Background.
 In Japan, the abatement of CO, emission by households is a significant problem. Hence, it is necessary to formulate a long-term policy on the use of long-life and highly-insulating technologies for houses; these technologies are expected to reduce CO, emission. The conventional LCA methodology can evaluate the environmental impact of these technologies, while not necessarily providing sufficient information to support policy-making because of its analytical perspective. The aim of the present study is to first develop a new methodology to examine the optimal use of technologies to formulate an environmental policy by considering dynamic socioeconomic conditions. Second, as a demonstration, such a developed methodology is applied to explore an environmentally conscious housing policy for CO, abatement in Japan. Methods. A new methodology was developed, considering the context of a society where technologies are introduced, in order to determine the optimal configuration of technologies to minimize the cumulative environmental burden over time on a social scale. An inter-temporal linear programming model using an input-output table was formulated to make the methodology operational. Using the new model, the optimal use of long-life and thermal-insulating technologies for houses is examined to minimize CO, emissions across the entire life cycle of all the houses in Japan. Results and Discussion. The results of the model simulation indicate that not only long-life and highly-insulating technologies, but also short-life and poorly-insulating technologies, are required to minimize CO, emissions over a long period. According to the conventional LCA, a house with a short life is inferior to that with a long life, and a house with poor insulation is inferior to that with high insulation. However, houses with a short life and/or poor insulation are introduced in a transition phase to a certain extent before the final stage is reached that is completely dominated by highly-insulated houses with a long life. In other words, the existing houses that were built in the past are gradually replaced with highly-insulated houses with a long life after first building houses with a short life and/or poor insulation. It is not always feasible or not necessarily an optimal solution on a social scale to introduce only a technology that is best evaluated by using the conventional LCA. Inferior technologies can also play a significant role because of various socio-economic conditions and requirements, e.g. population decline, limited housing budgets, and employment stability. Dynamic socio-economic conditions significantly influence the optimal mix of technologies for CO, minimization in the entire society. Conclusions and Recommendations. The present study suggests that it is critical to consider dynamic socio-economic conditions when examining technologies for selection with the aim of a long-term reduction of the environmental burden. The new methodology proposed can provide valuable information to support policy-making toward a sustainable society.Goal, Scope and Background The weighting of environmental impacts and damages on the safeguard subjects Human Health, Ecosystems, and Resources is a significant step of full aggregated LCIA. Panel surveys have become a common approach in LCIA research to investigate the preferences of stakeholders on environmental i
mpacts and damages. Despite the numerous studies, the knowledge on how to elicit reliable weights is still poor and inconsistent. We present a questionnaire study with 58 environmental science students to investigate so-called framing effects in panel surveys. Main Features. The study investigates the significance of different framings, which were provided by three references. In addition, the significance of quantitative information provided in the questionnaire is tested. The references are (a1) safeguard subjects without specified additional information, (a2) damages in Europe as they are perceived by the panelist, and (a3) quantified scenarios derived from Eco-indicator99. All participants ranked and rated the importance of the safeguard subjects three times, once within each reference system. According to a test-of-scope study, quantitative information given to the panelist was varied. One level (b1) included data from the Ecoindicator99 methodology, whereas the other group (b2) received data with significantly higher Human Health damages and lower Ecosystem damages, ceteris paribus. This design allows testing the influence of quantitative data on the rating. Results. The weighting of the safeguard subjects (a1) reveals that Human Health is considered a slightly more important safeguard subject than Ecosystems. However, both are judged to be significantly more important than Resources. This picture changes for the references (a2) and (a3) where damages were weighted. For both references, the respondents rated damages to Ecosystems as most important followed by Resources and Human Health, showing by far the lowest weights. Therefore, the framing of the reference that was weighted played a significant role. The ratings of the subgroups (b1) and (b2) did not differ with respect to the importance of damages, though substantially different quantitative information was given. Conclusions and Recommendations. The participants of the study were obviously insensitive with respect to quantitative information provided. This raises three questions, which are discussed. What is the mental model upon which respondents base their beliefs and values? Can we expect that 'more sophisticated' subjects would respond differently? Which prerequisites should an empirical weighting procedure fulfill in order to incorporate numerical data? We propose different approaches for future procedures in order to accurately analyze these questions.Background, Aims and Scope. Several authors have shown that spatially derived characterisation factors used in life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) can differ widely between different countries in the context of regional impact categories such as acidification or terrestrial eutrophication. Previous methodology studies in Europe have produced country-dependent characterisation factors for acidification and terrestrial eutrophication by using the results of the EMEP and RAINS models and critical loads for Europe. The unprotected ecosystem area (UA) is commonly used as a category indicator in the determination of characterisation factors in those studies. However, the UA indicator is only suitable for large emission changes and it does not result in environmental benefits in terms of characterisation factors if deposition after the emission reduction is still higher than the critical load. For this reason, there is a need to s
earch for a new category indicator type for acidification and terrestrial eutrophying in order to calculate site-dependent characterisation factors. The aim of this study is to explore new site-dependent characterisation factors for European acidifying and eutrophying emissions based on accumulated exceedance (AE) as the category indicator, which integrates both the exceeded area and amount of exceedance. In addition, the results obtained for the AE and UA indicators are compared with each other. Methods. The chosen category indicator, accumulated exceedance (AE), was computed according to the calculation methods developed in the work under the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution (LRTAP). Sulphur and nitrogen depositions to 150x150 km(2) grid cells over Europe were calculated by source-receptor matrices derived from the EMEP Lagrangian model of long-range transport of air pollution in Europe. Using the latest critical load data of Europe, the site-dependent characterisation factors for acidification and terrestrial eutrophication were calculated for 35 European countries and 5 sea areas for 2002 emissions and emissions predicted for 2010. In the determination of characterisation factors, the emissions of each country/area were reduced by various amounts in order to find stable characterisation factors. In addition, characterisation errors were calculated for the AE-based characterisation factors. For the comparison, the results based on the use of UA indicator were calculated by 10% and 50% reductions of emissions that corresponded to the common practice used in the previous studies. Results and Discussion. The characterisation factors based on the AE indicator were shown to be largely independent of the reduction percentage used to calculate them. Small changes in emissions (<= 100 t) produced the most stable characterisation factors in the case of the AE indicator. The characterisation errors of those characterisation factors were practically zero. This means that the characterisation factors can describe the effects of small changes in national emissions that are mostly looked at in LCAs. The comparison between country-dependent characterisation factors calculated by the AE and UA indicators showed that these two approaches produce differences between characterisation factors for many countries/areas in Europe. The differences were mostly related to the Central and Northern European countries. They were greater for terrestrial eutrophication because the contribution of ammonia emission differ remarkably between the two approaches. The characterisation factors of the AE indicator calculated by the emissions of 2002 were greater than the factors calculated by the predicted emissions for 2010 in almost all countries/sea areas, due to the presumed decrease of acidifying and eutrophying emissions in Europe. Conclusions and Recommendations. In this study, accumulated exceedance was shown to be an appropriate category indicator in LCIA applications for the determination of site-dependent characterisation factors for acidification and terrestrial eutrophication in the context of integrated assessment modelling. In the future, it would be useful to calculate characterisation factors for emissions of separate parts of large countries and sea areas in Europe. In addition, it w
ould also be useful to compare the approach based on the AE indicator with the method of the hazard index, as recommended in the latest CML guidebook.Goal, Scope and Background. Taking into account the location of emissions and its subsequent, site-dependent impacts improves the accuracy of LCIA. Opponents of site-dependent impact assessment argue that it is too time-consuming to collect the required additional inventory data. In this paper we quantify this time and look into the added value of site-dependent LCIA results. Methods. We recalculated the acidifying impact for three existing LCA studies: linoleum, stone wool, and water piping systems. The amount of time needed to collect the required additional data is reported. The EDIP2003 methodology provides site-generic and site-dependent acidification factors. We used these factors to recalculate acidification for the case studies. We analyzed differences between site-generic and site-dependent acidification and reported problems experienced. Results and Discussion. Finding the location of processes and emissions was easy. The reports of the three case studies contained most of this information. Far more time was needed to disaggregate processes to the level where emissions can be localized. Although the overall conclusions with regard to acidification did not change in the case studies, the relative importance of processes shifted when considering sub-levels. This is especially important for improvement analysis. Site-dependent acidification Assessment was hampered in the linoleum case study where about 40% of the acidification originates from non-European emissions. However, EDIP2003 provides no site-dependent factors for these countries and site-generic factors had to be used instead. Thus, calculating site-dependent acidification is only feasible for LCA studies in which the majority of the emissions originate in Europe. We could not reproduce all parts of the three case studies using the report and additional public resources. This hindered our recalculation. In fact, any additional analysis will be hampered by this lack of reproducibility. ISO recommends such reproducibility for comparative assertion disclosed to the public. Conclusion. Spatially differentiated acidification is feasible for each of the three case studies. Finding the location of processes and emissions was easy, but quite some time was needed to disaggregate processes and emissions to the appropriate level. Overall conclusions on acidification remained the same for the case studies, but the relative contribution of basic processes changed when applying site-dependent impact assessment. Though the three case studies were all rather detailed and complete, none of them was fully reproducible. This complicated recalculation of acidification, and will in fact make any additional analysis difficult.Goal, Scope and Background. Telephony as well as remote data transfer is increasingly performed via mobile phone networks. However, the environmental consequences, in particular of the End-of-Life (EOL) treatment, of such network infrastructures have been investigated insufficiently to date. In the present report the environmental implications of the EOL treatment of a single GSM 900 antenna rack have been analysed. Methods. Based on comprehensive inventories of a GSM 900 antenna station rack and currently applied EOL treatme
nt, the environmental impacts related to the EOL treatment of the rack are investigated. Six different EOL treatment scenarios are developed to find an environmentally safe treatment alternative. System expansion, i.e. inclusion of the production phase, is applied to all scenarios in order to consider different amounts of regained materials. Results and Discussion. The production of primary rack materials, especially that of palladium (accounts for almost 40% of the ecotoxicity impact category), to substitute lost materials dominates the overall environmental impact. Releases of heavy metals from landfilled rack components/materials and of by-products to the environment greatly influence the overall impacts on human health and ecosystem quality. The final disposal of rack components contributes to about 70% of the non-carcinogenic effects. Landfilled dust from steel production contributes to nearly 11% of this impact category. Conclusions. The results suggest that all precious metals containing electronic scrap should be treated in specially equipped metal recovery plants. A complete rack disassembly before processing in high-standard metal recovery plants is not necessary. An elaborated pre-treatment and fractionation of the scrap prior to precious material recovery does not lower the environmental impacts and is not mandatory and would only become environmentally interesting if high recovery of heavy metals is achieved. To avoid the formation and release of volatile and toxic heavy metal, incineration of electronic scrap as of by-products prior to landfilling should be avoided. To reduce the overall environmental load, a standardisation of the sizes of rack components, facilitating their re-use, is recommended.Goal, Scope and Background. The idea of district heating is to transport centrally produced heat to buildings where it is used for space heating and for domestic hot water generation. Water is used as a heat carrier. Many different heat sources are used to supply district heating networks with hot water. In literature, environmental studies on district heating mainly consider emissions from the heat generation; environmental impacts from the distribution system are seldom discussed. This paper is the third in an article series on the environmental impacts from the district heat distribution system. The paper presents an evaluation of the use phase of district heat distribution, focusing on long-term thermal performance of different district heating pipes. An overall discussion, in which environmental impacts from the different life cycle phases of district heat distribution are compared, is also presented. Methods for the Use Phase Study. Environmental impacts from use of district heat distribution systems were evaluated based on heat losses from the networks, which depend on the long-term thermal performance of the district heating pipes. The heat losses cause environmental impacts from extra heat generation needed to cover the losses. The long-term thermal performance of preinsulated bonded district heating pipes with steel tube, polyurethane foam insulation and polyethylene casing, depends on the thickness and quality of both the insulation and the casing. One important attribute of the foam is the blowing agent used. The blowing agent influences both the initial insulating capacity of the foam and the ageing characteristics, d
ue to differences in migration rates of different substances through the materials. Heat losses were calculated for different district heating pipe dimensions (DN25 twin pipe, and DN25, DN100 and DN500 Series 2 single pipes). Pipes with two different foam blowing agents (cyclopentane and carbon dioxide) were studied, taking into account the differences in long-term thermal performance of the foams. Concerning emissions from heat generation, two heat sources were considered: heat generation according to the average district heating fuel mix used in Sweden in the year of 2000, and heat generation using natural gas heat only boilers. The functional unit used is 100 m of district heat distribution network during 30 years of use. Results and Discussion on the Use Phase. A short description of the inventory, some inventory results and a life cycle impact assessment are presented. Characterizations according to GWP, AP, POCP and resource depletion are given as well as two weightings: EcoIndicator99 and Ecoscarcity. The DN25 twin pipe network has about 25% lower environmental impacts from use than the DN25 Series 2 single pipe network. The district heating pipes insulated with cyclopentane blown polyurethane foam have a better environmental performance during use compared to those insulated with carbon dioxide blown foam (6-13%). This is partly dependent on a higher initial insulating capacity of the cyclopentane blown foam, but also due to a slower deterioration of the insulating capacity over time. For the two heat sources considered, different impact assessments give different indications to which option that is environmentally preferable. Overall Results and Discussion on Pipe Production, Network Construction and Network Use Phases. A comparison of the three life cycle phases studied in this article series was made concerning four emissions, the four characterizations and the two weightings. The use phase represents over half of the total environmental impact for most, but not all, environmental parameters studied. It is important to keep the heat losses from the network down and to strive for heat sources with low environmental impacts. The larger the pipe, the larger is the relative impact from pipe production. The network construction phase has a relatively small contribution to the total environmental impact in most systems studied. However, the emissions during network construction often occur in residential areas and may therefore not be neglected when immediate nuisances and health aspects are considered. A very small change of the material flows in the production phase, the change between two different blowing agents (cyclopentane and carbon dioxide), can give dramatic results for the total environmental outcome for the district heating network because of a large change in influence on environmental impacts during use. The DN25 twin pipe network proves to be environmentally advantageous compared to the DN25 Series 2 single pipe network during all of the studied life cycle phases. Recommendations and Perspectives. It is important to make sure that improvements in the production and construction phases do not lower the insulating capacity of the district heating system. A good initial insulating capacity, maintained over time, is important for the environmental performance of a district heat distribution network. Using DN25 twin pipes i
nstead of DN25 Series 2 single pipes is a better choice, when possible, regarding all studied life cycle phases. The environmental impact from use of the district heat distribution system depends heavily on the type of energy source that is utilized to supply the network with heat.A comparative hybrid life cycle assessment (LCA) was conducted to evaluate two different methods for hydrogen production. The environmental impacts from nuclear assisted thermochemical water splitting are compared to hydrogen production from natural gas steam reforming with CO2 sequestration. The results show that the two methods have significantly different impacts. The nuclear alternative has lower impacts on global warming potential, acidification and eutrophication, and much higher impacts from radiation and human toxicity. A weighting procedure is not applied, hence no overall "winner" can be proclaimed. The relative importance of the different impacts remains a challenge for decision makers. Further, the assessment has demonstrated the importance of including services in a comparative assessment. Ordinary process LCA may produce distorted results, since a larger fraction of life cycle impacts may occur outside the system boundaries in one study compared to another due to different fractions of service inputs.Volcanic soil can be used to remove metals from wastewaters. Once used, it is disposed in landfills. The utilization of this material in the cement industry as an alternative raw material was evaluated using life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. This possibility has been studied from an environmental point of view in a Chilean cement facility, representative of the current operation state of art, including both technical and economic analysis. Two scenarios were compared: Scenario 1, which corresponds to the existing cement production process, and Scenario 2, which represents cement production using spent volcanic soil. With the exception of the categories of carcinogens (C) and minerals (M), the comparative results are favourable to Scenario 2, specially regarding to the category of ecotoxicity (E), mainly due to the avoided landfilling emissions of the volcanic soil. When considering the damage assessment, damage to human health (HH), ecosystem quality (EQ) and resources (R) are lower in Scenario 2. In addition, sensitivity analyses were performed to study the influence of particular parameters (i.e., transport of spent volcanic Soil, CO2 emissions from the clinkerization process and heavy metals leaching from the spent volcanic soil) on the results of the assessment. The use of alternative raw materials (in this case, spent volcanic soil), which present the advantage to be wastes from other technical systems, appear to allow the development of cement production in a more sustainable way, slightly improving the economy of the process. The spent volcanic soil can be treated with zero cost for the wastewater treatment plant with savings of 0.23EURO for each tonne of clinker production. Establishing a sound management way for the spent volcanic soil could foment its possible use as mineral adsorbent in industrial wastewater treatment facilities. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Both the general public and governmental agencies highly prioritize resource optimization (energy and material) and environmental issues such as ozone, acid rain and
 global warming in the life-cycle context. Disassembly and recycling are also increasingly important in most industrial countries due to the significant increase in the quantity of used products being discarded. Disassembly of used products has been recognized as necessary to make recycling economically viable in current state-of-the-art reprocessing technology. This emerging trend requires incorporating environmental considerations into design strategies. This study presents a graph-based heuristic method for disassembly analysis of end-of-life products, which incorporates the Eco-Design concept. Product components and their assembly relationships from the bill of material BOM are adopted to split the graph into sub-graphs denoting modular sub-assemblies. The life-cycle analysis LCA is then used to analyze disassembly trees, from which a disassembly sequence can be derived. Designers can use the analytical results to evaluate the dis-assemblability and recyclability of products when they are designed. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper analyses the supply of an important form of rural tourism, agrotourism, at a level of each of the four provinces on the island of Sardinia (Italy). Importantly, an analysis is undertaken on the impact that legislation has had on the life cycle. The analysis is framed into three main section s-firstly, the main legislative interventions introduced in Sardinia by the local government that were aimed at regulating the supply of agrotourism are presented; secondly, a life cycle description is given based upon a literature review and a methodology presented; thirdly, the life cycle analysis and legislative impacts are combined using an econometric approach in terms of trend factors of the Sardinian businesses over an extended period from 1986 to 2003. The analysis identifies that regional legislative actions have indeed had a significant impact in the evolution and dynamics of the supply of agrotourism on the island. The quantitative methodology identifies some heterogeneity in modelling the trend for each of the four Sardinian provinces, and evidence exists indicating that agrotourism is entering a stagnation stage. On the basis of the economic results obtained, suggestions are given to both the private sector and public policy makers in agrotourism. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Conventional oil and natural gas production were compared with two case studies of enhanced resource recovery along with the potential for CO2 sequestration applications. The first case study is a Norwegian enhanced oil recovery (EOR) project, and the second focuses on enhanced coal-bed methane (ECBM) recovery in Japan. Both cases or systems involved the recovery of CO2 gases from a coal-fired power plant, followed by compression, transportation, and final injection of the greenhouse gas into geological formations as a solution to mitigate global warming. A life-cycle assessment (LCA) method was applied to measure how each system, conventional as well as enhanced recovery methods, impacts the environment. The first set of results presented were the inventory of air emissions (CO, CO2, CH4, SOx, NOx, NH3, Pb, Hg, etc.), wastewater-containing acids and sulfides, and solid wastes released because of both fossil fuel production and energy usage from the power plant. The impact assessment results because of 
the accumulated pollutants from all of the systems were calculated for the following set of common impact measures: global warming potential, acidification, human toxicity, eutrophication, wastes, and resources. The final (combined) scores of the entire system were also generated. These final scores, which included the normalization and weighting steps, allowed for overall comparisons for verifying the final benefits or drawbacks of a system. For the proposed EOR project, the greatest two environmental benefits (total impacts prevented) were calculated to be -9.8 x 10(-2) and -9.7 x 10(-2). As for ECBM, the best scores were projected to be -1.0 x 10(-1) followed by -8.70 x 10(-2).Hydrogen fuel cell (FC) vehicles are receiving increasing attention as a potential powerful technology to reduce the transportation sector's dependence on petroleum and substantially decrease emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) at the same time. This paper projects energy use and GHG emissions from different FC vehicle configurations and compares these values to the projected characteristics of similarly sized and performing gasoline and diesel fueled automobiles on a life cycle, well to wheels and cradle to grave basis. Our analysis suggests that for the next 20 or more years, new internal combustion engine (ICE) hybrid drive train vehicles can achieve similar levels of reduction in energy use and GHG emissions compared to hydrogen FC vehicles, if the hydrogen is derived from natural gas. The fleet impact of more fuel-efficient vehicles depends on the time it takes for new technology to (i) become competitive, (ii) increase its share of the new vehicles produced, and finally (iii) penetrate significantly into the vehicle fleet. Since the lead times for bringing improved ICE vehicle technology into production are the shortest, its impact on vehicle fleet energy use and emissions could be significant in 20-30 years, about half the time required for hydrogen FC vehicles to have a similar impact. Full emission reduction potential of FC vehicles can only be achieved when hydrogen is derived from zero or very low-carbon releasing production processes on a large scale-an option that further increases the impact leadtime. Thus, a comprehensive short- and long-term strategy for reducing automobile energy use and emissions should include both the continuous improvement of ICE vehicles and simultaneous research and development of hydrogen FC cars. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Over the last decade, researchers paid much attention to concepts such as Design for Environment, Extended Producer Responsibility, Responsible Chain Management, and Eco-design. Many management tools and standards (such as EMAS, ISO 14001, LCA, EPD, Ecolabel) have been developed to support companies in the evaluation and management of their environmental performance and to pursue continual environmental improvement. The more recent development of the aforesaid fields looks at interorganizational environmental management. Such an approach can complement the more traditional intraorganizational corporate environmental management approaches and tools. A typical example of this new trend is the Product Oriented Environmental Management System (POEMS), which represents the natural evolution of the above-mentioned tools, combining the features of EMS, EPD and Ecolabel. Although the structure 
of the POEMS is still not standardized, many experimental applications have yet been carried out in Europe. In developing a POEMS, a company needs to determine all of the environmental impacts caused at all life-cycle stages of the product and, ideally, to reduce all of them through a continual commitment. The aim of the present study was to perform a survey of the developed POEMS models and to analyze their peculiarities and drawbacks in the application to Small and Medium Enterprises. A case study regarding an Italian winery company is presented. The study analyzes the structure and the activities of the examined firm, in order to estimate direct and indirect environmental impacts following a life-cycle approach. The chosen functional unit is a 0.75-L bottle of red wine. The article also suggests some solutions to improve the environmental performances of the firm's products.Public concern that wood-frame construction overly stresses the forest resource has led some to advocate a reduction in the use of wood. Possible activity toward that objective includes total substitution of wood with alternative materials, a design choice already invalidated on an environmental basis by life cycle assessment (LCA). Another response has been the reinvigoration of the optimum value engineering (OVE) concept, also called advanced framing. This is a careful approach to wood design meant to reduce the volume of wood in a building, and to reduce waste. Advocates of OVE assume an environmental benefit from any wood reduction; however, OVE has never been scientifically established as environmentally preferable to conventional framing; literature on OVE has only quantified the cost savings in materials. This LCA study compared a best-practice Canadian house with one using up to 50 percent less wood, and found little or no environmental benefit; an important factor in these results was the need to incorporate non-renewable products to replace the functionality of the removed wood. Next, a house that combined some elements of efficient framing with maximum use of renewable content (e.g., cellulose insulation in place of fiberglass, wood windows in place of aluminum windows, and wood siding in place of vinyl siding) was compared to the conventional house, and showed strong environmental benefits. These data provide a good argument for maintaining, not decreasing, the renewable content in a house, provided that public confidence in sustainable forestry in North America is continually improved.The importance of renewable resources in technical applications has increased. Within the framework of the studies, a bus body component based on natural fibres and PTP(R), a vegetable based thermoset resin, is produced with the sheet-moulding-compound technology (SMC). Hitherto, the conventional component was produced of glass fibre reinforced polyester resin. The mid-term results of the studies show that it is possible to optimise the production of this textile semi-finished part by selecting qualified hemp fibres and developing a technically matured PTP(R)-SMC variant in such a way that the component production process based on the semi-finished parts need not be changed. All in all, it was possible to produce a homogeneous body part with the hemp/PTP(R)-prepreg due to the flow ability that was achieved for the natural fibres. The technical feasibility of producing an S
MC-component based on renewable resources was demonstrated. The properties of the component, e.g. tensile strength, burning behaviour and water absorption, are shown and compared to the results of the series component. An assessment of the component from the end-user perspective is presented. According to the End-of-Life Vehicles Regulation, there is no advantage in components based on renewable resources over components based on petrochemical resources. However, the application of renewable resources has advantages in terms of recycling technologies, which are accepted for SMC and which will become economically more important in the future. In comparison with the polyester system, the life-cycle assessment of the polymer material PTP(R) shows lower values in nearly all impact categories. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Japan imports almost all of the energy resources with 40% of them used for electricity generation. Electricity is generated mainly by five types of power plants (LNG-fired, LNG-CC, oil-fired, coal-fired, and nuclear), which have various environmental impacts, for example, fossil fuel depletion, global warming, acid rain, etc. The purpose of this paper is to make a life cycle assessment (LCA) of the electricity generating processes of power plants in Japan and to suggest some concrete measures to reduce the environmental impacts. Our study proceeds as follows. We focus on the fuel procuring process reflecting Japan's import of fuel resources and then the whole electricity generating process of the different types of power plants. Firstly, we quantify the environmental loads resulting from each type of plant by Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) analysis. Secondly, Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) method is applied to evaluate the total impacts of each type of plant. Thirdly, we make some concluding remarks on reduction of the environmental impacts. LCI analysis and LCIA evaluation are done with use of the 'LCA-NETS' scheme we have developed. Our LCIA evaluation shows that in the fuel procuring process nuclear plants rank top, coalfired plants second, oil-fired plants third, and LNG-fired plants bottom in the ascending (better) order of the 'NETS/MJ' values, and that in the whole electricity generating process LNG-CC plants rank top, LNG-fired and coal-fired plants second, oil-fired plants third and nuclear plants last in the ascending (better) order of the 'NETS/kWh' values. Our findings about the fuel procuring process imply that if LNG-fired plants can find an effective usage of their byproduct of cold energy or import natural gas without liquefaction directly from nearby countries, they will rank up next to nuclear plants and that if any legal regulations of desulfurization are imposed on sea transportation the impacts of crude oil and coal will be reduced a great deal. It follows from the total evaluation of the whole electricity generating process that if coalfired plants can reduce the total impacts by 20% by introducing a technology of coal gasification they will be superior to LNG-CC plants and that if nuclear plants can adopt a technology of recycling uranium to reduce the total impacts by 50% they will be as good as LNG-CC plants.Goal, Scope and Background. Calculating LCA outcomes implies the use of parameters, models, choices and scenarios which introduce uncertainty, as they imperfectly account for the va
riability of both human and environmental systems. The analysis of the uncertainty of LCA results, and its reduction by an improved estimation of key parameters and through the improvement of the models used to convert emissions into regional impacts, such as eutrophication, are major issues for LCA. Methods. In a case study of pig production systems, we propose a simple quantification of the uncertainty of LCA results (intra-system variability) and we explore the inter-system variability to produce more robust LCA outcomes. The quantification of the intrasystem uncertainty takes into account the variability of the technical performance (crop yield, feed efficiency) and of emission factors (for NH3, N2O and NO3) and the influence of the functional unit (FU) (kg of pig versus hectare used). For farming systems, the inter-system variability is investigated through differentiating the production mode (conventional, quality label, organic (OA)), and the farmer practices (Good Agricultural Practice (GAP) versus Over Fertilised (OF)), while for natural systems, variability due to physical and climatic characteristics of catchments expected to modify nitrate fate is explored. Results and Conclusion. For the eutrophication and climate change impact categories, the uncertainty associated with field emissions contributes more to the overall uncertainty than the uncertainty associated with emissions from livestock buildings, with crop yield and with feed efficiency. For acidification, the uncertainty of emissions from livestock buildings is the single most important contributor to the overall uncertainty. The influence of the FU on eutrophication results is very important when comparing systems with different degrees of intensification such as GAP and OA. Concerning the inter-system variability, differences in farmer practices have a larger effect on eutrophication than differences between production modes. Finally, the physical characteristics of the catchment and the climate strongly affect the results for eutrophication. In conclusion, in this case study, the main sources of uncertainty are in the estimation of emission factors, due both to the variability of environmental conditions and to lack of knowledge (emissions of N2O at the field level), but also in the model used for assessing regional impacts such as eutrophication. Recommendation and Perspective. Suitable deterministic simulation models integrating the main controlling variables (environmental conditions, farmer practices, technology used) should be used to predict the emissions of a given system as well as their probabilistic distribution allowing the use of stochastic modelling. Finally, our simulations on eutrophication illustrate the necessity of integrating the fate of pollutants in models of impact assessment and highlight the important margin of improvement existing for the eutrophication impact assessment model.Goal, Scope and Background. This paper is concerned with a life cycle assessment (LCA) and life cycle costing (LCQ by the use of the waste input-output (WIO) quantity- and price model of air conditioners with different energy efficiency at the use phase (high-end, lowend and average models) that were available in Japan as of winter 2002. The functional unit is an air conditioner of the 2.5kW type that is used for 10 years, and then subjected to an end-of-life (EoL) proc
ess that is consistent with the Japanese law on the recycling of appliances. Methods. This is the first simultaneous application of the WIO methodology to an LCA and LCC over the entire life-cycle of a product including the use phase, and represents a methodological extension (in the sense of considering the use phase) and integration (in the sense of a simultaneous application) of previous studies by us (Kondo and Nakamura, Int J LCA 2004, Nakamura and Kondo, Ecol Econ 2006). The main body of data is provided by the WIO table for the year 2000, an update of the previous table for 1995 that was used in the above WIO studies. Compared with the WIO table for 1995 that consisted of only about 80 industry sectors, the current one consists of about 400 industry sectors, and includes air conditioner as a separate sector. The data on the purchase price and efficiency of air conditioners indicate wide variations: the cheapest one (the lowend model) costs half of the most expensive one (the high-end model), but its efficiency is about half of the latter. Results and Discussion. When the cost in the use and EoL phases is included, the low-end model becomes the most expensive one, and the high-end model with the highest purchase cost the least expensive. This reversal of the relative cost levels is attributed to the difference in the efficiency in the use phase. A sensitivity analysis indicates that a reduction of the electricity price in the use phase by about 40% does not alter the significant superiority of the high-end model over the low-end model. In spite of the largest amount of input in the production phase, the high-end model performs the best in terms of both global warming potential (GWP) and landfill, while the low-end model performs the worst. The use phase generates the largest amount of waste for landfill across the three models, the largest component of which is flyash generated from coal firing power plants. A possible internalization of externality in the form of carbon tax was found to work in favor of the high-end model. The cost advantage of the high-end model, however, is sensitive to the rate of discounting of future costs: discounting at 15% diminishes its advantage over the low-end model. Recommendation and Perspective. The results indicate the effectiveness of the pricing based on the life cycle cost for achieving sustainability, that is, for promoting the shift of the demand away from appliances with low environmental performance to the one with higher environmental performance. Acceptance by society of pricing based on life cycle costing would require, among other things, an economywide standardization of the LCC concept (in a manner analogous to ISO-LCA) that can be used complementary to ISO-LCA.Goal, Scope and Background. Sustainability is a well recognised goal which is difficult to manage due to its complexity. As part of a series of sustainability management tools, a Product Sustainability Index (PSI) is translating the sustainability aspects to the organization of vehicle product development of Ford of Europe, thus allocating ownership and responsibility to that function. PSI is limiting the scope to those key environmental, social and economic characteristics of passenger vehicles that are controllable by the product development organisation. Materials and Methods. The PSI considers environmental, economic and soci
al aspects based on externally reviewed life cycle environmental and cost aspects (Life Cycle Assessment, Cost of ownership / Life Cycle Costing), externally certified aspects (allergy-tested interior) and related aspects as sustainable materials, safety, mobility capability and noise. After the kick-off of their product development in 2002, the new Ford S-MAX and Ford Galaxy are serving as a pilot for this tool. These products are launched in Europe in 2006. The tracking of PSI performance has been done by engineers of the Vehicle Integration department within the product development organization. The method has been translated in an easy spreadsheet tool. Engineers have been trained within one hour trainings. The application of PSI by vehicle integration followed the principle to reduce the need for any incremental time or additional data to a minimum. PSI is adopted to the existing decision-making process. End of 2005, an internal expert conducted a Life Cycle Assessment and Life Cycle Costing (LCC) study for verification purposes using commercial software. This study and the PSI have been scrutinized by an external review panel according to ISO 14040 and, by taking into consideration the on-going SETAC, work in the field of LCC. Results. The results of the Life Cycle based indicators of PSI as calculated by non-experts are fully in line with those of the more detailed expert study. The difference is below 2%. The new Ford Galaxy and Ford S-MAX shows significantly improved performance regarding the life cycle air quality, use of sustainable materials, restricted substances and safety compared to the previous model Galaxy. The affordability (Life Cycle Cost of Ownership) has also been improved when looking at the same engine types. Looking at gasoline versus diesel options, the detailed study shows under what conditions the diesel options are environmentally preferable and less costly (mileage, fuel prices, etc.). Discussion. The robustness of results has been verified in various ways. Based also on Sensitivity and Monte-Carlo Analysis, case study-specific requirements have been deduced defining criteria for a significant environmental improvement between the various vehicles. Only if the differences of LCIA results between two vehicles are larger than a certain threshold are the above-mentioned results robust. Conclusions. In general terms, an approach has been implemented and externally reviewed that allows non-experts to manage key environmental, social and economic aspects in the product development, also on a vehicle level. This allows mainstream functions to take ownership of sustainability and assigns accountability to those who can really decide on changes affecting the sustainability performance. In the case of Ford S-MAX and Galaxy, indicators from all three dimensions of sustainability (environment, social and economic) have been improved compared to the old Ford Galaxy. Recommendations and Perspectives. Based on this positive experience, it is recommended to make, in large or multinational organizations, the core business functions directly responsible and accountable for managing their own part of environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainability. Staff functions should be limited to starting the process with methodological and training support and making sure that the contributions of the different main function
s fit together.Goal, Scope and Background. The new European legislation concerning End-of-Life Vehicles (ELVs) will allow, in 2015, the landfilling of only 5% of the average vehicle weight, which means that the automotive industry must make a great effort in order to design their products taking into account their recyclability when they become waste. In the present work, LCA is used to assess an existing automotive component, a plastic door panel, and to compare it with a designed-for-recycling prototype panel, based on compatible polyolefins. Main Features. A 'cradle to grave' LCA is carried out for the panel currently produced and the prototype. The following scenarios are analyzed for plastic waste: landfilling (current practice in Spain), energy recovery in a MSW incinerator or in a cement kiln, and mechanical recycling. Results and Discussion. The production and use phases together contribute more than 95% in most impact indicators. When the current and prototype products are compared, a decrease in the environmental impact appears for the prototype in the production phase and also at end-of-life if recycling is considered with full substitution of virgin polymers. The overall impact reduction ranges from 18% in the toxicity indicators to 80% in landfill use. Energy recovery in cement kilns appears as a good alternative to recycling in some indicators, such as landfill use or resource depletion. A sensitivity analysis is performed on the quality of recycled plastic, and the results suggest that the benefits of recycling are substantially reduced if full substitution is not achieved. Conclusion. LCA has been shown to be a very useful tool to validate from an environmental point of view a redesigned automotive component; in addition, it has allowed one to identify not only the benefits from increased recyclability, but also improvements in other life cycle phases which were not previously expected. Recommendation and Perspective. From this case study several recommendations to the company have been drawn in order to design environmentally friendly components for car interiors, and ecodesign is expected to be introduced in the company procedures.Goal, Scope and Background. This paper discusses the merging of methodological aspects of two known methods into a hybrid form applied to water supply systems. Water shortages are imminent due to scarce supply and increasing demand in many parts of the world. In California, this is caused primarily by population growth. As readily available water is depleted, alternatives that may have larger energy and resource requirements and, therefore, environmental impacts must be considered. In order to develop a more environmentally responsible and sustainable water supply system, these environmental implications should be incorporated into planning decisions. Methods. Comprehensive accounting for environmental effects requires Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), a systematic account of resource use and environmental emissions caused by extracting raw materials, manufacturing, constructing, operating, maintaining, and decommissioning the water infrastructure. In this study, a hybrid LCA approach, combining elements of process-based and economic input-output- based LCA was used to compare three supply alternatives: importing, recycling, and desalinating water. For all three options, energy use and air emissions
 associated with energy generation, vehicle and equipment operation, and material production were quantified for life-cycle phases and water supply functions (supply, treatment, and distribution). The Water-Energy Sustainability Tool was developed to inform water planning decisions. It was used to evaluate the systems of a Northern and a Southern California water utility. Results and Discussion. The results showed that for the two case study utilities desalination had 2-5 times larger energy demand and caused 2-18 times more emissions than importation or recycling, due primarily to the energy-intensity of the treatment process. The operation life-cycle phase created the most energy consumption with 56% to 90% for all sources and case studies. For each water source, a different life-cycle phase dominated energy consumption. For imported water, supply contributed 56% and 86% of the results for each case study; for desalination, treatment accounted for approximately 85%; for recycled water, distribution dominated with 61% and 74% of energy use. The study calculated external costs of air pollution from all three water supply systems. These costs are borne by society, but not paid by producers. The external costs were found to be 6% of desalinated water production costs for both case studies, 8% of imported water production costs in Southern California, and 1-2% for the recycled water systems and for the Northern California utility's imported water system. Conclusion. Recycling water was found to be more energy intensive in Northern than in Southern California, but the results for imported water were similar. While the energy demand of water recycling was found to be larger than importation in Northern California, the two alternatives were competitive in Southern California. For all alternatives in both case studies, the energy consumed by system operation dominated the results, but maintenance was also found to be significant. Energy production was found to be the largest contributor in all water provision systems, followed by materials production. The assessment of external costs revealed that the environmental effects of energy and air emissions caused by infrastructure is measurable, and in some cases, significant relative to the economic cost of water. Recommendation and Perspective. This paper advocates the necessity of LCA in water planning, and discusses the applicability of the described model to water utilities.Goal, Scope, Background. As of July V, 2006, lead will be banned in most solder pastes used in the electronics industry. This has called for environmental evaluation of alternatives to tin-lead solders. Our life cycle assessment (LCA) has two aims: (i) to compare attributional and consequential LCA methodologies, and (ii) to compare a SnPb solder (62 % tin, 3 6 % lead, 2 % silver) to a Pbfree solder (95.5% tin, 3.8% silver, 0.7% copper). Methods. An attributional LCA model describes the environmental impact of the solder life cycle. Ideally, it should include average data on each unit process within the life cycle. The model does not include unit processes other than those of the life cycle investigated, but significant cut-offs within the life cycle can be avoided through the use of environmentally expanded input-output tables. A consequential LCA model includes unit processes that are significantly affected irrespective of w
hether they are within or outside the life cycle. Ideally, it should include marginal data on bulk production processes in the background system. Our Consequential LCA model includes economic partial equilibrium models of the lead and scrap lead markets. However, both our LCA models are based on data from the literature or from individual production sites. The partial equilibrium models are based on assumptions. The life cycle impact assessment is restricted to global warming potential (GWP). Results and Discussion. The attributional LCA demonstrates the obvious fact that the shift from SnPb to Pb-free solder means that lead is more or less eliminated from the solder life cycle. The attributional LCA results also indicate that the Pb-free option contributes 10 % more to the GWP than SnPb. Despite the poor quality of the data, the consequential LCA demonstrates that, when lead use is eliminated from the solder life cycle, the effect is partly offset by increased lead use in batteries and other products. This shift can contribute to environmental improvement because lead emissions are likely to be greatly reduced, while batteries can contribute to reducing GXW, thereby offsetting part of the GWP increase in the solder life cycle. Conclusions. The shift from SnPb to Pb-free solder is likely to result in reduced lead emissions and increased GXW. Attributional and consequential LCAs yield complementary knowledge on the consequences of this shift in solder pastes. At present, consequential LCA is hampered by the lack of readily available marginal data and the lack of input data to economic partial equilibrium models. However, when the input to a consequential LCA model is in the form of quantitative assumptions based on a semi-qualitative discussion, the model can still generate new knowledge. Recommendations and Outlook. Experts on partial equilibrium models should be involved in consequential LCA modeling in order to improve the input data on price elasticity, marginal production, and marginal consumption.Goal, Scope and Background. It has been recognized that LCA has a limitation in assessing open cycle recycling of materials because of inevitable subjective judgments in setting system boundary. According with the enforcement of recycling laws, there has been a rapid increase in recycling ratio of materials at the end-of-life of products in many industrialized countries. So, materials' life cycle is getting more complicated, which makes it difficult to quantify the environmental impacts of materials used in a product in an appropriate way. The purpose of this paper is to develop a methodology to calculate the average number of times a material is used in a society from cradle to grave. The method developed in this paper derives the average number of times material is used; this value could be used for allocation of environmental burdens of virgin material as well as an indicator for assessing the state of material,use in a certain year, based on material flow of material in that year. Main Features. Our methodology is based on Markov chain model using matrix-based numerical analysis. A major feature of this method is that it creates transition probability matrices for a material from the way in which the material is produced, consumed, and recycled, making it possible to simply elicit indicators that assess the status of material use in prod
ucts in society. Our methodology could be an alternative method to derive the average number of times material is used, which could be used for allocation of environmental burdens of virgin material. Results and Discussions. The methodology was applied to hypothetical examples of material flows, in which a virgin material was produced and used in products, recycled and finally landfilled. In some cases, closed loop and open loop recycling of materials existed. The transition probability matrix was created for each material flow, and how many times a virgin material is used in products until all of the elements are ultimately landfilled. Conclusions. This methodology is applicable to a complicated material flow if the status of residence of a material and its flow in a society can be figured out. All the necessary data are the amount of virgin material production, amount of the material used in products, recycling rate of the material at the end of life of each product, the amount of scrap of the material that are used for products. In Part 2 of this paper, case studies for steel were conducted.Goal, Scope and Background. On June 12-13 June 2006 in Guildford (UK) an international workshop was held to address indicators to incorporate land use impacts in LCA. It provided an interdisciplinary forum where soil scientists and biologists met with LCA experts and users to discuss the challenges of including land use impacts in LCA and potential approaches to addressing these challenges. The discussion used as starting point the definitions framed in the past work on land use impacts within the UNEP/SETAC Life Cycle Initiative (Mila i Canals et al. 2006). However, the presence of soil quality and biodiversity experts allowed for a more in-depth consideration of the nature of land use impacts. Main Features. The discussions. were focused on three main themes: general methodological issues to be addressed in including land use impacts in LCA; recommendations for soil quality indicators; and recommendations for biodiversity indicators. Results and Discussion. There is a conflict between the levels of detail at which LCA should assess land use impacts: a coarse assessment may allow the detection of hotspots from a life cycle perspective, whereas a more detailed assessment might allow the distinction between land management modes (e.g. organic vs. conventional agriculture). Different land use processes need to be modelled in consequential and attributional LCA. Land use effects on biodiversity and soil quality are non-linear and also depend on the scale of land use, which is difficult to address in LCA. Soil is multi-functional and many threats affect its quality, which results in a case-specific selection of the most adequate indicator. In the case of biodiversity, two main options for defining indicators were identified at species and ecosystem levels. The main advantage of the former is data availability, but the election of a particular taxon may be arbitrary. Ecosystem level indicators include a higher degree of subjectivity but may be more relevant than species level ones. Conclusions. Land use impacts need to be considered in LCA for all life cycle stages in all types of products. An urgent need for LCA is to incorporate land use impacts particularly in comparisons of systems which differ substantially in terms of land use impacts. The main dif
ferences between consequential and attributional LCA are the need for the consideration of off-site effects and marginal vs. average land uses in consequential LCA. In order to define the marginal effects of land use a similar approach to the description of the electricity grid and its marginal technology may be followed. 'Dose-response' functions need to be defined for land use interventions and their effects. The main soil degradation processes (considering soil's vulnerability to different threats) should be captured in a spatial -dependent way in LCA. Criteria and examples to select biodiversity indicators at species and ecosystem levels were proposed in the workshop. Recommendations and Perspectives. The conduction of LCA case studies for relevant systems (especially fossil energy compared to bio-energy systems involving different eco-regions to account for potential international trade) may provide a good platform to further develop the workshop suggestions.The fate of manure nutrients in beef cattle (Bos taurus) feedlots is influenced by handling treatment, yet few data are available in western Canada comparing traditional practices (fresh handling, stockpiling) with newer ones (composting). This study examined the influence of handling treatment (fresh, stockpiled, or composted) on nutrient levels and mass balance estimates of feedlot manure at Lethbridge, Alberta, and Brandon, Manitoba. Total carbon (TC) concentration of compost (161 kg Mg-1) was lower (P < 0.001) than stockpiled (248 kg Mg-1), which was in turn lower (P < 0.001) than fresh manure (314 kg Mg-1). Total nitrogen (TN) concentration was not affected by handling treatment while total phosphorus (TP) concentration increased with composting at Lethbridge. The percent inorganic nitrogen (PIN) was lower (P < 0.01) for compost (5.1%) than both fresh (24.7%) and stockpiled (28.9%) manure. Composting led to higher (P < 0.05) dry matter (DM) losses (39.8%) compared to stockpiling (22.5%) and higher (P < 0.05) total mass (water + DM) losses (65.6 vs. 35.2%). Carbon (C) losses were higher (P < 0.01) with composting (66.9% of initial) than with stockpiling (37.5%), as were nitrogen (N) losses (46.3 vs. 22.5%, P < 0.05). Composting allowed transport of two times as much P as fresh manure and 1.4 times as much P as stockpiled manure (P < 0.001) on an "as is" basis. Our study looked at one aspect of manure management (i.e., handling treatment effects on nutrient concentrations and mass balance estimates) and, as such, should be viewed as one component in the larger context of a life cycle assessment.Nearly 2.5 million ft(2) of barracks must be removed from military facilities throughout the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region 4. While integration of manual deconstruction with traditional mechanical demolition methods has been shown to be comparable to traditional demolition methods in terms of cost and time requirements, the life cycle impacts of manual deconstruction on the environment and public health are unknown. To this end, life cycle assessment was applied to extend previous deconstruction studies of barracks at Ft. McClellan in Anniston, Alabama. Four scenarios were compared with varying degrees of time required for manual deconstruction of the barracks-100% Manual, 44% Manual, 26% Manual, and 100% Mechanical Data were collected directly from the site and applied us
ing SimaPro modeling software (Pre Associates, The Netherlands), considering two post-deconstruction options. Materials salvaged using either 100% or 44% Manual deconstruction and reused within a 20-mile radius of the deconstruction site yielded the most favorable environmental and health impacts. The significant impacts involved in the life cycle of diesel fuel required for transportation emphasize the need for developing reuse strategies for deconstructed materials at the regional level.This article presents a scenario analysis for a life-cycle model of service sector companies. The model is based on six case companies and it is applied to test the influence of 32 management scenarios. The scenarios simulate feasible options for environmental management measures in companies, and the life-cycle assessment method is used to model their relevance in terms of the total environmental impact of the company. The study found that the bulk of tested scenarios had only a minor influence on the total environmental impact of the company. Some individual management scenarios, though, turned out to have a major influence on the organization's environmental performance. The scenarios with greatest influence were those related to the procurement of electricity, building energy consumption, commuting vehicle mix, space usage efficiency, and refurbishment periods of the building. All of these management scenarios had an influence of more than 10% on the environmental impact of the model organization.Performance of a 160 m(2) photovoltaic installation at the Napier University's Merchiston Campus, situated 3 km from Edinburgh's city centre, is presented. The alternative current and direct current electrical outputs were recorded since the installation of the facility was completed in April 2005. An analysis of the efficiency of the facility, as well as energetic, environmental, and monetary life cycle assessments, using long-term meteorological data is presented in this article.It has been shown that there is an urgent need for emissions data in the chemical sector. Since part of the problem is the confidentiality of this data, it has been proposed to create a set of modules for basic chemical reactions that could be incorporated in software simulation tools. Using mass and energy balances, proper emission calculations in mass units could be determined. An example using polyurethane is used to illustrate the objective of this work. Although theoretical, it is better than non-verifiable data, not to say non-existing data. This tool is a clear need for any type of assessment that requires emissions data such as LCNs, as well as for environmental policy, public awareness, and industry itself. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Two scenarios are assessed in a new life cycle assessment model, ROAD-RES, developed at the Technical University of Denmark for road construction and recycling of residues. The scenarios concern a I km asphalted road in Denmark with a service life of 100 years: Scenario A was a road with natural materials only, while Scenario B was a similar road, where municipal solid waste incineration bottom ash is used as sub-base layer replacing gravel beneath the lanes. The assessment included resource and energy consumption, and emissions associated with production of road's materials, transport, construction of the road and operation an
d maintenance of the road during the roads life as well as leaching of heavy metals and salts from the bottom ash, and salts used for road salting. The assessment showed that the difference between the scenarios was marginal in terms of environmental impacts and resource consumption. The majority of the environmental impacts were related to emissions from combustion of fossil fuels. Potential pollution of groundwater due to leaching of salts appeared to be important potential resource consumption, primarily due to road salting. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper describes the implementation of life cycle assessment to investigate the environmental impact of 20 technologies suitable for treating extensive volumes of water produced during the oil and gas extraction processes. Data on the physical and operational attributes of technologies under consideration were assembled and their life cycle environmental impacts estimated over 15 year time period. The results were then incorporated in a decision support system which allows identification and prioritisation of potential technology combinations capable of producing water for nine designated industrial and agricultural end uses. In total, more than 618 technology combinations were investigated for their environmental impacts. The identification and prioritisation of technologies were done on the basis of their environmental and technical performance. This analysis showed that dissolved air flotation, absorbents, dual media filtration and reverse osmosis technologies offer relatively low environmental impact parts of systems for cleaning such process waters. Furthermore, the environmental assessment combined within the decision support system has revealed potentially valuable indirect downstream "benefits" from effects such as evaporative losses from wetlands in terms of the overall environmental impact of a treatment system. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.The challenge for environmental assessment tools, such as Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is to provide a holistic picture of the environmental impacts of a given system, while being relevant both at a global scale, i.e., for global impact categories such as climate change, and at a smaller scale, i.e., for regional impact categories such as aquatic eutrophication. To this end, the environmental mechanisms between emission and impact should be taken into account. For eutrophication in particular, which is one of the main impacts of farming systems, the fate factor of eutrophying pollutants in catchments, and particularly of nitrate, reflects one of these important and complex environmental mechanisms. We define this fate factor as: the ratio of the amount of nitrate at the outlet of the catchment over the nitrate emitted from the catchment's soils. In LCA, this fate factor is most often assumed equal to 1, while the observed fate factor is generally less than 1. A generic approach for estimating the range of variation of nitrate fate factors in a region of intensive agriculture was proposed. This approach was based on the analysis of different catchment scenarios combining different catchment types and different effective rainfalls. The evolution over time of the nitrate fate factor as well as the steady state fate factor for each catchment scenario was obtained using the INCA simulation model. In line with the ge
neral LCA model, the implications of the steady state fate factors for nitrate were investigated for the eutrophication impact result in the framework of an LCA of pig production. A sensitivity analysis to the fraction of nitrate lost as N(2)O was presented for the climate change impact category. This study highlighted the difference between the observed fate factor at a given time, which aggregates both storage and transformation processes and a "steady state fate factor", specific to the system considered. The range of steady state fate factors obtained for the study region was wide, from 0.44 to 0.86, depending primarily on the catchment type and secondarily on the effective rainfall. The sensitivity of the LCA of pig production to the fate factors was significant concerning eutrophication, but potentially much larger concerning climate change. The potential for producing improved eutrophication results by using spatially differentiated fate factors was demonstrated. Additionally, the urgent need for quantitative studies on the N(2)O/N(2) ratio in riparian zones denitrification was highlighted. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Currently, oil based fuels are the primary energy source of road transport. The growing need for oil independence and CO2 mitigation has lead to the increasing importance of alternative fuel usage. CO2 is produced not only as the fuel is used in the vehicle (tank-to-wheel contribution), but also upstream, from the fuel extraction to the refueling station (well-to-tank contribution), and the life cycle of the ftiel production (well-to-wheel contribution) must be considered in order to analyse the global impact of the fuel utilization. A road vehicle tank-to-wheel analysis tool that may be integrated with well-to-tank models was developed in the present study. The integration in a demonstration case study allowed to perform a life cycle assessment concerning the utilization of diesel and natural gas fuels in a specific network line of a bus transit company operating in the city of Porto, Portugal. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.In a recent paper in this journal, Suh [Suh, S., 2004. Functions, commodities and environmental impacts in an ecological-economic model. Ecological Economics 40 (4), 451-467.] presented a model combining life cycle assessment (LCA) with input-output analysis (IOA); termed "integrated hybrid LCA". In this paper, we discuss various issues relating to the use of the integrated hybrid LCA approach. In particular, the interpretation of the downstream feedback term, C-d, is discussed with particular focus on practical implementation. In this paper, two interpretations of C-d are suggested depending on the particular LCA data used. If the LCA data is designed for a demand on the functional unit only, then it is argued that the C-d term is negligible in many applications. If the LCA data is compatible with an arbitrary demand, then it is argued that in many cases the consistent use of the C-d term implies data requirements that may not be justified by the potential gains. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.In the comment by Peters and Hertwich (Peters, G.P., Hertwich, E., 2006-this issue), the authors provide two interpretations on one of the block matrices that is a part of the integrated hybrid Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) framework presented in Suh (2004a) (Suh, S., 2
004a. Functions, commodities and environmental impacts in an ecological economic model. Ecological Economics 48 (4), 451-467). The authors argue that the contribution of the downstream cut-off matrix to the overall results might be small, or the amount of resources needed to compile the matrix will be too high, depending on the type of the LCA databases that the authors distinguish. in this response, I confirm that the contribution of the downstream cut-off matrix is generally minor, which can be easily recognized from the structure of the system. However, one should realize that there are the cases when it is not, leaving little reason to automatically preset the downstream cut-off matrix as a zero matrix. A set of conditions under which a downstream cut-off matrix becomes an important part is discussed, and a practical method for checking the potential importance of a downstream cut-off matrix before actually compiling data is presented. The method is tested using the numerical example shown in Suh (2004a). The distinction of LCA databases based on their capabilities of handling arbitrary demands, which is proposed by Peters and Hertwich, is discussed from an LCA practitioner's point of view, and it is argued that the actual process of data collection for the downstream cut-off matrix is far from what the authors suggest. Finally, a step-wise strategy for an efficient data collection under the budget and time constraints is discussed. (c) 2006 Published by Elsevier B.V.This paper summarises some recent work exploring the development of a multi-criteria optimisation tool for achieving sustainable solutions for municipal solid waste management systems (MSWMS). The aim of the project was to provide a new methodological background for the regional solid waste management modelling taking into account spatial and temporal patterns of waste generation and processing, environmental as well as economic impacts of the system development with a particular emphasis on public health and biodiversity. The research has focused on integrating three different approaches to the spatial-temporal analysis of the MSWMS, namely a life cycle inventory analysis, which helps to identify emission patterns within the MSWMS, a multi-criteria optimisation approach, which helps to find compromise solutions among environmentally and economically preferred options, and a geographic information systems approach, which provides a tool for identifying waste management facilities, transportation environmental and social impacts, as well as analysis of environmental impacts on valuable ecosystems. A Russian methodology for calculating environmental damage was used to weight the importance of different sub-territories covered by the system as well as simplifying the analysis of emissions from the waste treatment plants. The approach provides a new perspective for the analysis of municipal solid waste management systems at the regional scale. The principal novelty of the proposed complex MSW strategic management model is an integration of the different types of data-geographical, environmental and economic-using relational database technology. Simulations using the dataset for Gloucestershire were performed on a simplified version of the model. Simulations were undertaken to explore the potential effects on waste management infrastructure of introducing the EU Landfill Direc
tive. Understanding the strengths and weaknesses inherent in the methods utilised has suggested that a relatively affordable and easy to use tool can be developed for strategic analysis of the municipal solid waste management system in a region, giving useful support to the decision-maker regarding the potential development paths and trade-offs between economic and environmental performance of a proposed waste management system. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.As they are easy to recycle and consume little natural resources, polymers have been considered as environmentally friendly for a long time. Significant evolutions have been observed, in the field of polymers from biomass for example, and at least 15% of world research on polymers are connected with environmental questions. To address these questions, it seems that multidisciplinary research has to be carried out considering the synthesis, formulation, processing and the characterization of polymers. Similarly, training in chemistry and materials is more and more concerned by sustainable development.We conducted a mobility chains, or well-to-wheels (WTW), analysis to assess the energy and emission benefits of cellulosic biomass for the U. S. transportation sector in the years 2015-2030. We estimated the life-cycle energy consumption and emissions associated with biofuel production and use in light-duty vehicle (LDV) technologies by using the Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation (GREET) model. Analysis of biofuel production was based on ASPEN Plus model simulation of an advanced fermentation process to produce fuel ethanol/protein, a thermochemical process to produce Fischer-Tropsch diesel (FTD) and dimethyl ether (DME), and a combined heat and power plant to co-produce steam and electricity. Our study revealed that cellulosic biofuels as E85 (mixture of 85% ethanol and 15% gasoline by volume), FTD, and DME offer substantial savings in petroleum (66-93%) and fossil energy (65-88%) consumption on a per-mile basis. Decreased fossil fuel use translates to 82-87% reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across all unblended cellulosic biofuels. In urban areas, our study shows net reductions for almost all criteria pollutants, with the exception of carbon monoxide (unchanged), for each of the biofuel production option examined. Conventional and hybrid electric vehicles, when fueled with E85, could reduce total sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions to 39-43% of those generated by vehicles fueled with gasoline. By using bio-FTD and bio-DME in place of diesel, SOx emissions are reduced to 46-58% of those generated by diesel-fueled vehicles. Six different fuel production options were compared. This study strongly suggests that integrated heat and power co-generation by means of gas turbine combined cycle is a crucial factor in the energy savings and emission reductions.Air-cooled chillers are commonly used to provide cooling energy for air-conditioned buildings at the expense of considerable electricity. This paper examines the life cycle electricity cost of these chillers with the improved condenser features of condensing temperature control (CTC), evaporative pre-coolers (EC) and variable speed condenser fans (VSF). A validated model for an air-cooled screw chiller was used to ascertain how the individual and mixed features influence the annual electricity
 consumption of chillers in various operating conditions. It is estimated that the life cycle electricity cost savings range from HKS 2,099,742 with EC to HK$6,399,564 with all the three features, with regard to a chiller plant serving an office building for 15 yr. The life cycle analysis reported here provides important insights into how to reap the benefits of energy efficient technologies for air-cooled chillers. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The assessment of Renewables-to-Electricity Systems is a complex, time-consuming task and requires skilled, experienced engineers. This paper describes the on-going research effort that takes place in the development of a new Intelligent Approach, all efficient decision making tool in this problem based on the employment of the Expert Systems and Fuzzy Logic techniques. As far as expert knowledge representation is concerned, the proposed approach is based on Expert System techniques (rule-based methodology). Moreover, trying to assess a Renewables-to-Electricity project or several alternative ones, the analysis has to face, in general, a series of uncertainties. To handle effectively these uncertainties, a new methodology is proposed (by use of Fuzzy Sets Theory and Fuzzy Logic Techniques). The proposed Fuzzy Project Priority Index for each Renewables-to-Electricity System is very useful especially in decision-makers. In order to demonstrate the proposed intelligent fuzzy analysis-based approach a simple case study is provided, supposing that a legal entity is to assess and finally select/propose an electricity production system, which uses RES (wind energy OR solar energy to photovoltaic OR small hydro). As fuzzy variables are concerned the Life Cycle Analysis (versus equipment production, plant preparation, operation and decommissioning) and the Development Cost (versus firm capabilities, spillover effects and potential downside damage). (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Source separation, composting and anaerobic digestion, with associated land application, are increasingly being considered as alternative waste management strategies to landfilling and incineration of municipal solid waste (MSW). Environmental life cycle assessments are a useful tool in political decision-making about waste management strategies. However, due to the diversity of processed organic MSW and the situations in which it can be applied, the environmental impacts of land application are very hard to determine by experimental means. In the current study, we used the agroecosystem model Daisy to simulate a range of different scenarios representing different geographical areas, farm and soil types under Danish conditions and legislation. Generally, the application of processed organic MSW resulted in increased emissions compared with the corresponding standard scenarios, but with large differences between scenarios. Emission coefficients for nitrogen leaching to the groundwater ranged from 0.03 to 0.87, while those for nitrogen lost to surface waters through tile drains ranged from 0 to 0.30. Emission coefficients for N2O formation ranged from 0.013 to 0.022 and for ammonia volatilization from 0.016 to 0.11. These estimates are within reasonable range of observed values under similar conditions. Furthermore, a sensitivity analysis showed that the estimates were not very sensitive to the mineralization
 dynamics of the processed organic MSW. The results show that agroecosystem models can be powerful tools to estimate the environmental impacts of land application of processed MSW under different conditions. Despite this, agroecosystem models have only been used to a very limited degree for this purpose.The environmental and socio-economic impacts of biomass utilization by co-firing with brown coal in an existing thermoelectric unit in Greece or through its pure combustion in a new plant were studied and evaluated in this work. The 125 MW, lignite-fired power plant in Ptolemais Power Station (Western Macedonia) was used as reference system. The environmental benefits of the alternative biomass exploitation options were quantified based on the life cycle assessment methodology, as established by SETAC, while the BIOSEM technique was used to carry out socio-economic calculations. The obtained results showed clear environmental benefits of both biomass utilization alternatives in comparison with the reference system. In addition, co-firing biomass with lignite in an existing unit outperforms the combustion of biomass exclusively in a new plant, since it exhibits a better environmental performance and it is a low risk investment with immediate benefits. A biomass combustion unit requires a considerably higher capital investment and its benefits are more evident in the long run. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Aluminium is the most-used metal in the world after steel, with a wide range of applications in the industrial field owing to its physical and mechanical properties. The aim of this study was environmental and economic analysis of secondary aluminium. In particular, this study demonstrated that aluminium recycling offers many advantages to both consumers and industry: Increased energy savings compared to primary aluminium production; " Recovery and reuse of raw materials for future production avoids consumption of non-renewable resources; Reduction in landfill waste and consequent environmental damage; " Reduction in bauxite mining which, in turn, will reduce the socio-economic impact on populations of those countries, mainly underdeveloped, that contain mines; " Economic advantages for Italy, the first European producer of secondary aluminium, which lacks bauxite mines and has high energy costs. This study used the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method, the modified Eco-indicator 99 method for damage calculation, and the SimaPro calculation code. The study examined secondary aluminium production by ICMET, based in Reggio Emilia, Italy. The economic and environmental evaluation utilised environmental information supplied by the company.A life cycle assessment (LCA) case study was conducted on the processing of soybeans to soybean oil. Three stages of soybean oil processing are studied in detail: preprocessing, extraction and separation, and postprocessing. For extraction, hexane (current industrial process) and supercritical CO2 (research and development [R & D] laboratory-scale process) methods are compared in detail. The initial life cycle comparison found that the laboratory-scale CO2 system was not as good in life cycle impacts as the hexane system. However, reasonable engineering improvements typical of scale-up practices would make the CO2 technology better than hexane and eliminate the hexane emissions. Utilization of membr
ane techniques to separate the small molecular CO2 from the soybean oil hydrocarbon appears to be a much better R & D direction for development. This article illustrates the ability to use life cycle as an aid to R & D to select more advantageous directions for process improvement.The electrical power generated by a polycrystalline silicon photovoltaic (PV) module mounted on an unglazed transpired solar collector (UTC) has been studied and compared to that of a PV module without UTC for a quantitative analysis of electrical output and its role in reducing the simple payback periods of photovoltaic electrical systems. A 75 W polycrystalline silicon PV module was fixed on an UTC in front of the ventilation fan, and effectiveness of cooling by means of the forced ventilation at the rate of 160 CFM was monitored. The temperature reduction under forced ventilation was in the range of 3-9 degrees C with a 5% recovery in the electrical output power on a typical day of the month of February 2005. The simulated and measured electrical power outputs are in reasonable agreement with root-mean-square error of 2.40. The life cycle assessment of a hypothetical PV system located at Daejeon, South Korea and consisting of 3 kW PV modules fixed on a 50 m(2) UTC shows that with a possible reduction of 3-9 degrees C in the operating temperatures, the system requires three 75 W fewer PV modules. The simple payback period of PV system is reduced from 23 years to 15 years when integrated into an UTC air heating system.Techniques of environmental appraisal and valuation play an important role in the context of sustainability assessment. They are at the heart of methods for quantifying economic and social costs and benefits, as well as the direct ecological impacts that are an inevitable side-effect of material 'progress'. Concepts such as the physical life cycle of products and processes, and the need for clearly defined system boundaries, are key elements in environmental problem-solving. However, some economists would claim that, as a 'normative' discipline, their methods can be extended to incorporate all of society's environmental concerns. In contrast, engineers and environmental professionals have at times argued that economic techniques (such as cost-benefit analyses) may well obscure the impacts of different courses of action, and that decision makers consequently become less well informed rather than the reverse. Aggregate decision criteria, for example, often conceal the weighing of various impacts. By contrast, the sort of 'prescriptive' analytical tools emanating from engineering and the physical sciences can provide alternative insights that complement those that spring from economics. These include thermodynamic (energy and exergy) analysis and environmental life-cycle assessment. A range of interrelated environmental project appraisal techniques is therefore examined in order to determine their relative merits. Practical examples involving resource (energy and hydraulic oil) use, pollutant emissions, and waste disposal and recycling (of hydraulic oils) indicate that many of these methods can play an important evaluative role as part of an interdisciplinary toolkit within a general systems framework. Nevertheless, caution needs to be used when adopting economic and engineering analysis techniques so as to ensure that they are fit for their sustaina
bility purpose.The study performed a life cycle assessment (LCA) of a molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC) plant for marine applications. The results are compared to a benchmark conventional diesel engine (DE) which operates as an auxiliary power generating unit. The LCA includes manufacturing of MCFC and DE, fuel supply, operation and decommissioning stages of the system's life cycle. As a new technology in its very early stages of commercialisation, some detailed data for the FC systems are not available. In order to overcome this problem, a series of scenario analysis has also been performed to evaluate the effect of various factors on the overall impact, such as change in power load factors and effect of recycling credit at the end of life cycle. Environmental benefits from fuel cell operation are maximised with the use of hydrogen as an input fuel. For the manufacturing stage of the life cycle, input material and process energy required for fuel cell stack assemblies and balance-of-plants (BOP) represent a bigger impact than that of conventional benchmark mainly due to special materials used in the stack and the weights of the BOP components. Additionally, recovering valuable materials through re-use or re-cycle will reduce the overall environmental burden of the system over its life cycle. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Recently there has been a move towards environmentally conscious manufacturing with an emphasis on life-cycle assessment. The intention is that life-cycle assessment be integrated into a holistic or systemic approach to product design. Such an approach allows consideration of the total energy expended, the resources used, and the waste created. Hence, enabling the entire environmental impact to be determined and minimised. Hadley Industries PLC [1] is a master in utilising the cold roll forming process to produce an increasingly wide range of products. The question considered in this paper is how a cold roll forming company mid-way along the value adding chain, a sub-contractor, not involved in final product designs and hence product life-cycle assessments can ensure they are a sustainable and environmentally conscious manufacturer. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The paper summarizes a framework for a systematic comparative evaluation of the sustainability of energy systems and includes a comprehensive application of this framework to major electricity generating technologies and the associated fuel cycles in Germany. Main efforts have focussed on the generation of quantitative, technology-specific, economic, environmental and social indicators. A number of methods have been employed, including Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), Risk Assessment (RA), and the Impact Pathway Approach (IPA). Two methods of indicator aggregation were used: namely, the estimation of total (internal and external) costs, and Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis (MCDA). Use of MCDA is motivated principally by the acknowledgement of the role of value judgments in decision-making.In this study, micro-level data from wood energy producers in Hedmark County were gathered and analysed. The aim was to find how much greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions various kinds of wood energy cause (not only CO2, but also CH4 and N2O), which energy they substitute, their potential to reduce GHG emissions, and the major sources of uncertainty. The method w
as life cycle assessment. Six types of wood energy were studied: fuel wood, sawdust, pellets, briquettes, demolition wood, and bark. GHG emissions over the life cycle of the wood energy types in this study are 2-19% of the emissions from a comparable source of energy. The lowest figure is for demolition wood substituting oil in large combustion facilities, the highest for fuel wood used in dwellings to substitute electricity produced by coal-based power plants. Avoided GHG emissions per in 3 wood used for energy were from 0.210 to 0.640 tonne CO2-equivalents. Related to GWh energy produced, avoided GHG emissions were from 250 to 360 tonne CO2-equivalents. Avoided GHG emissions per tonne CO2 in the wood are 0.28-0.70 tonne CO2-equivalents. The most important factors were technology used for combustion, which energy that is substituted, densities, and heating values. Inputs concerning harvest, transport, and production of the wood energy are not important. Overall, taking the uncertainties into account there is not much difference in avoided GHG emissions for the different kinds of wood energy. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The environmental performance of presently operated GSM and UMTS networks was analysed concentrating on the environmental effects of the End-of-Life (EOL) phase using the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method. The study was performed based on comprehensive life cycle inventory and life cycle modelling. The environmental effects were quantified using the IMPACT2002+ method. Based on technological forecasts, the environmental effects of forthcoming mobile telephone networks were approximated. The results indicate that a parallel operation of GSM and UNITS networks is environmentally detrimental and the transition phase should be kept as short as possible. The use phase (i.e. the operation) of the radio network components account for a large fraction of the total environmental impact. In particular, there is a need to lower the energy consumption of those network components. Seen in relation to each other, UMTS networks provide an environmentally more efficient mobile communication technology than GSM networks. In assessing the EOL phase, recycling the electronic scrap of mobile phone networks was shown to have clear environmental benefits. Under the present conditions, material recycling could help lower the environmental impact of the production phase by up to 50%. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is used to evaluate the benefits, primarily from reduced energy consumption, resulting from the addition of a green roof to an eight story residential building in Madrid. Building energy use is simulated and a bottom-up LCA is conducted assuming a 50 year building life. The key property of a green roof is its low solar absorptance, which causes lower surface temperature, thereby reducing the heat flux through the roof. Savings in annual energy use are just over 1%, but summer cooling load is reduced by over 6% and reductions in peak hour cooling load in the upper floors reach 25%. By replacing the common flat roof with a green roof, environmental impacts are reduced by between 1.0 and 5.3%. Similar reductions might be achieved by using a white roof with additional insulation for winter, but more substantial reductions are achieved if common use of green roofs leads to reductions in
 the urban heat island.We compare calculated greenhouse gas emissions for a North American beef feedlot operation, which includes biogas production by anaerobic digestion with subsequent electricity generation (the AD case), to the emissions for a "business as usual" case, which includes both a feedlot and an equivalent amount of grid-generated electricity. Anaerobic digestion, biogas production and electricity production are the major sources of differences in emissions. Fertilizer production, crop production, manure collection and spreading, as well as the associated transport stages are also considered within the LCA system boundaries; impacts on life cycle emissions from these sources are lower. Running a feedlot and producing electricity using typical grid power plants produces 3,845 kg CO2-eq/MWh while running a feedlot, which generates biogas to produce electricity, produces 2,965 kg CO2-eq/MWh. This savings of 880 kg CO2-eq/MWh arises because the net power generation in the AD case emits about 90% less life cycle GHG emissions compared to grid-average electricity. The high overall emission levels arise due to emissions associated with enteric fermentation in beef cattle as the main source of GHG emissions in both the "business as usual" and the AD cases. It contributed 57% of total emissions for the feedlot /biogas /electricity system and 44% of total emissions for the feedlot /grid electricity system.Background, Aims and Scope. Noise impacts are rarely assessed in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), probably due to lack of data, to the difficulty of setting up an appropriate assessment method including relevant uncertainties and vagueness and to their site-dependent nature. The evaluation, as well as for odour, cultural and aesthetic impacts, seems to be closely related to human judgements and perception based. Although fuzzy-sets have been developed for this purpose since the late '60s and their usefulness has been proven by successful applications, noise impact assessment approaches have been essentially crisp so far. The aim of this paper is to present a method for noise impact assessment based on fuzzy sets with an application to a simple example. Methods. The fuzzy noise impact assessment involves: 1) the quality assessment of the site concerned by the noise impact before the occurrence of noise emissions; quality is expressed by a crisp (i.e. non-fuzzy) function depending on variables (the so-called 'primitives'), which are relevant for the evaluation (e.g. the population density, the type of land use,...); 2) the fuzzy representation of the primitives, e.g. their evaluation by means of linguistic variables (such as 'the population density is high') and by fuzzy numbers; 3) the fuzzy representation of the quality, by fuzzifying the crisp function defined in 1) and 4) the fuzzy representation of the noise impact. In the example, the noise impacts of three processes of coal mining and combustion are assessed. Results and Discussion. The application example proved the operationability of the method. Primitives and noise impact assessment results are represented by fuzzy numbers and intervals that are more informative than crisp numbers for the interpretation of results The quality and impact assessment results obtained seem to be coherent with the nature of the processes involved and of the variables characterizing them. Conclusion a
nd Outlook. Fuzzy intervals and numbers could be more informative and closer to human judgements and perceptions than crisp numbers are, thus improving the pertinence and the interpretation of the results. Despite the increase in sophistication and the fact that the representation of the variables involved in calculations should be developed further (e.g. on the basis of consensus gained in an expert panel), the fuzzy approach seems to be promising for the assessment of noise impacts in LCA.Goal, Scope and Background. This study provides a life-cycle inventory of air emissions (CO2, NOx, PM10, and CO) associated with the transportation of goods by road, rail, and air in the U.S. It includes the manufacturing, use, maintenance, and end-of-life (EOL) of vehicles, the construction, operation, maintenance, and EOL of transportation infrastructure, as well as oil exploration, fuel refining, and fuel distribution. Methods. The comparison is performed using hybrid life-cycle assessment (LCA), a combination of process-based LCA and economic input-output analysis-based LCA (EIO-LCA). Results are summed by means of a common functional unit of grams of air pollutant per ton-mile of freight activity. Results and Discussion. Results show that the vehicle use phase is responsible for approximately 70% of total emissions of CO, for all three modes. This confirms that tailpipe emissions underestimate total emissions of freight transportation as infrastructure, pre-combustion, as well as vehicle manufacturing and EOL account for a sizeable share of total emissions. Depending on mode and pollutant, differences between tailpipe emissions and total systemwide emissions can range from only 4% for road transportation's CO emissions to an almost tenfold difference for air transportation's PM, emissions. Conclusion. Rail freight has the lowest associated air emissions, followed by road and air transportation. Depending on the pollutant, rail is 50-94% less polluting than road. Air transportation is rated the least efficient in terms of air emissions, partly due to the fact that it carries low weight cargo. It emits 35 times more CO2 than rail and 18 times more than road transportation on a ton-mile basis. It is important to consider infrastructure, vehicle manufacturing, and pre-combustion processes, whose life-cycle share is likely to increase as new tailpipe emission standards are enforced. Recommendation and Outlook. Emission factors, fuel efficiency, and equipment utilization contribute the most to uncertainty in the results. Further studies are necessary to address all variables that influence these parameters, such as road grade, vehicle speed, and vehicle weight. A focus on regional variation, EOL processes, fuel refining processes, terminals, as well as more accurate infrastructure allocation between freight and passenger transportation would strengthen the model.Background, Aims and Scope. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is used as a tool for design for environment (DfE) to improve the environmental performance of the Mercedes Car Group products. For the new S-Class model a brochure including an environmental certificate and comprehensive data for the product was published for the first time. The paper explains the use of LCA for these applications and presents exemplary results. Methods. The environmental certificate brochure reports on processes, data and
 results based on the international standards for life cycle assessment (ISO 14040, ISO 14041, ISO 14042, ISO 14043), for environmental labels and declarations (ISO 14020, ISO 14021) and for the integration of environmental aspects into product design and development (ISO 14062), which are accepted by all stakeholders. Results and Discussion. The compliance with these international standards and the correctness of the information contained in the certificate were reviewed and certified by independent experts. The global warming potential (GWP 100 years) of the new S-Class vehicle was reduced by 6%, the acidification potential by 2%, the eutrophication potential by 13% and the photochemical ozone creation potential by 9%. In addition, the use of parts made from renewable materials was increased by 73 percent to a total of 27 parts with a weight of about 43 kilograms. A total of 45 parts with a weight of 21.2 kilograms can be manufactured using a percentage of recycled plastics. Conclusion. The application of LCA for WE is fully integrated as a standard function in the vehicle development process. The DfE/LCA approach at the Mercedes Car Group was successful in improving the environmental performance of the new S-Class. It is shown that the objective of improving the environmental performance of the new S-Class model, compared to the previous one, was achieved. Recommendation and Outlook. Vehicles are complex products with very complex interactions with the environment. Therefore, simple solutions, e.g. pure focus on fuel economy or light weighting or recycling or single material strategies, are bound to fail. It is a main task of DfF and LCA to take this fact into account and come up with more intelligent solutions. The application of LCAs for WE and their integration as standard practice in the product development process is both the most demanding and the most rewarding. It requires a substantial effort to acquire the know-how, the data, the experience and the tools needed to generate meaningful results just in time. However, this is the way how LCA and DfE can add value - they have to be 'built' into the product.Goal, Scope and Background. Although a large number of life cycle inventory (LCI) analyses for steel-making processes or steel products have been conducted, the allocation of process gases generated from the steelworks has not yet been clearly solved. The most consistent settlement for avoiding the allocation problem has been generally known as a system expansion method. However, the existing subtracted operations for the process gases in that method are inconsistent to a system in which those gases are consumed at their unbalanced consumption ratio. The goal of this study is to suggest a more reasonable substitute for the process gases in the system expansion method and a modified system expansion method resettling the amount of process gases used. Methods. To seek a more suitable one as a substituted operation of the process gas, a kind of by-product gas, in the system expansion method, it is necessary to analyze the composition of whole fuel consumed within a steelworks. Because the steelworks is supplied with a gap of electricity from the national grid electricity other than home power plants, we should also consider various carbon fossil fuels consumed in the external electric-power production. From this procedure, a compos
ite fuel, which is composed of coal, heavy fuel oil and LNG, is derived as the alternative of the process gases such as BFG, COG, CFG, and LDG. In the sequential manufacturing line, IO(gas), which is the ratio of the quantity used to the quantity produced of each process gas, is increased as a functional unit proceeds to a following steel product of the next process. In the LCI system, where IO(gas) is higher than one, the IO(gas) is adjusted to nearly one. The adjustment of IO is conducted in the order of the amount of process gas used in the whole steelworks on the basis of the functional unit. Results and Discussion. LCI analyses were carried out focusing on the alternative of the process gases for five steel products. As a functional unit goes down a lower stage, IO(gas) is increased due to the high consumption of those gases. We found a phenomenon that IO(gas) had a critical influence on the LCI results between no allocation and system expansion for the process gases through sensitivity analysis. To reduce this influence and adjust for the real situation of IO(gas), we applied an improved system expansion method to the process gases. That is, we partly substituted a process gas with LNG and rearranged the ratio between internal and external electricity (RIEE) as close as the values of IO(gas) to one. Conclusion. As the alternative fuel for the process gases, a composite fuel was derived in the system expansion method. In addition to the composite fuel, which consisted of coal, HFO and LNG, an improved system expansion method was revised by adjusting a modified IO(gas) to nearly one, not the high value of IO(gas) for each process gas. Recommendation and Outlook. This improved system expansion method can be applicable in the chemical industry as well as the steel industry, which have multi-function systems. Optimal LCI analysis may be achieved through the redistribution and optimization in the usage of process gases.Goal, Scope and Background. Ecodesign requires environmental assessment methods, which are often time consuming and cost intensive. In this paper we proposed a method that combines top-down (e.g. LCA) and bottom-up (e.g. UNEP) approaches that allow one to generate ecodesign ideas by identifying what to improve, how much to improve, and how to improve within a short period of time. The proposed method incorporates an environmental assessment method for use in the ecodesign of consumer electronics that employs the top-down and bottom-up approaches simultaneously. Method. The proposed method consists of five modules: A. life cycle thinking for a product, B. environmental benchmarking, C. checklist method, D. ecodesign strategies, and E. environmental design information. A key life cycle stage with significant environmental impact is identified in module A. When the identified key life cycle stage is not product manufacturing, environmental benchmarking is used; however, a checklist method is applied if product manufacturing is identified as the key life cycle stage. Ecodesign strategies for consumer electronics are obtained in module D. Environmental design information is produced by linking both the top-down and bottom-up information in module E. Results and Discussion. The applicability of the proposed method was evaluated using mobile phones. First, the key life cycle stage of the mobile phone was identified as the raw mate
rial acquisition stage. Next, environmental benchmarking was carried out for 10 parameters belonging to the raw material acquisition stage. Environmental target specifications for the 10 parameters were set, ranging from 14% to 60%. Finally, environmental design information for the mobile phone was determined by linking the target specifications of the environmental benchmarking parameters and the corresponding ecodesign strategies. The proposed method was also compared with the LCA and the UNEP/promising approaches, which are representative examples of the top-down approach and the bottom-up approach, respectively. Based on the results of this comparison, the proposed method was judged to be an advanced method in facilitating the generation of ecodesign ideas. Environmentally significant benchmarking parameters correspond to what to improve, target specifications on how much to improve, and ecodesign strategies on how to improve. It was found that the use of the proposed method minimizes the time and money expenditure by confining the identification of environmental weak points within the key life cycle stage. Conclusion and Outlook. An environmental assessment method for consumer electronics in ecodesign was proposed and applied to mobile phones. The advantages of the proposed method are as follows: it is efficient and cost-effective, and it allows designers to generate ecodesign ideas more easily and effectively by simultaneously identifying the specific environmental weak points of a product and corresponding ecodesign strategies. The proposed method can be envisaged as a useful ecodesign approach when electronic companies identify the environmental aspects of their products and integrate them into product design and development process.Goal, Scope and Background. Goal of this study is an evaluation of the environmental sustainability of the UMTS mobile communication system in Switzerland by means of a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). A baseline environmental impact profile across the full life cycle of the UNITS (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System) and its predecessor, the GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication) is presented. The baseline assessment was a necessary first step to evaluate the environmental impacts of the mobile communication systems use and growth, thus permitting the evaluation of its environmental sustainability. Main Features. Two functional units are defined: a data set of 1 Gbit (1.000.000 kbit), and the yearly mobile communication of an average customer. In the UNITS, both data packages and calls can be conveyed. In order to be able to standardize the results, an equivalence between these two kinds of transmission is formed. Two different options are defined, which represent different ways of transferring the data: mobile phone to mobile phone, and mobile phone to fixed network. All components of the UMTS network like the mobile phones, base stations, antennae, switching systems and the components of the landline like cable system and switching centers, are assessed. The environmental impacts are assessed taking into account all major life cycle phases like raw material extraction, manufacturing, use, disassembly and disposal of the product and the needed infrastructure. Electronic components like printed wiring boards and integrated circuits are assessed using a simple model based on the size (for IQ or
 number of layers (for PWB), respectively. Mining of precious metals (gold, silver) is included. The study was carried out by ESU-services, Motorola, Swisscom and Deutsche Telekom. Thanks to the industrial partners it can rely on primary data for the production of mobile phone and base station, and for the operation of the networks. As the UNITS network is still being built, no actual data of network operation is available. Data from the GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication) were used in case of data gaps. Results and Conclusions. About 25 kg CO2 are emitted and 800 MJ-eq (non-renewable) primary energy are required for the transfer of 1 Gbit information from mobile phone to mobile phone in the UNITS network. For a transfer from mobile to fixed network, these values are 20 kg CO2 and 640 MJ-eq, respectively. On the other hand, the fixed network requires more resources like copper (0.07 kg for the mobile to mobile option vs. 0.12 kg for mobile to fixed network). From an environmental point of view, the mobile telephone is the most important element of the mobile communication network (UMTS and GSM). The short service life of the mobile phone plays a substantial role. Increasing the utilization period of the mobile phone (e.g. by leasing, re-use, extension of the innovation cycles, etc.) could thus represent a large potential for its improvement. The second most important components are the base stations. In the assessment mainly the use phase proved to be important. The lower environmental impact (per Gbit data transfer) as compared to the mobile phone can be explained by the longer service life (around factor 8). Main impacts are caused by the electricity consumption, in particular the energy needed for cooling the base stations. By choosing an environmentally benign electricity mix and/or by increasing the portion of renewable sources of energy, the network operators have a substantial potential of lower the environmental impacts (in particular the greenhouse gas emissions) of mobile telecommunication. Furthermore, the manufacturing of electronic components, the life time of the appliances and energy consumption are key parameters influencing the environmental profile of the networks most. Given its larger data transfer rate, the UNITS is ecologically more favorable in terms of data transfer rate than its predecessor, the GSM system. The higher energy consumption and the more complex production of the devices in the UNITS system are compensated by the faster data transmission rate. Per customer, the result is inverse, however, since the higher efficiency is compensated by the higher data communication per user in the UNITS system. The UMTS network in its state of 2004 according to the 2001 planning and with the accordingly calculated number of customers and data transfer causes 2.1 times more CO2 emissions and requires 2.4 times more (non-renewable) primary energy per customer than for the GSM system in its current state. It must be noted, however, that the UNITS technology supports other services than the GSM system. The development of the UNITS is accompanied with an increased consumption of resources and emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases regarding the entire system for mobile telephone communication. The GSM system is a mature technology, while the UNITS is still at the beginning of its learning curve. Thus, it can be
 safely assumed that large improvement potentials are still present for the UMTS network components concerning expenditures and emissions both at production and by the use of the devices. This study provides the necessary information where such improvements are most effective in environmental terms.Intention, Goal, Scope, Background. It has gained growing acceptance in recent years that there are values in LCA, and several authors have discussed how value orientations can influence LCA models and results. The aim of this article is to continue this discussion and to focus on value choices in LCA. Objectives. To find a way of describing value orientations in relation to choices in LCA. Methods. This objective has been pursued in this paper by investigating the relationship between values and traditional science, exploring the concept of values, investigating the relationship between values and choice, and suggesting a way to describe the value base for specific choices in LCA. Results and Discussion. Research on how to improve the environmental performance of products resembles peace research in that it aims to achieve a certain value-laden situation in society. The epistemological basis for peace research also seems to apply to LCA research. The term value has many meanings. There are several classification methods for values and I claim that one is more suitable for choices in LCA than the others. The correlation between values and choice is not straightforward, and values can only partially explain choices. Conclusions. Describing the value base for choices in LCA increases the consistency and transparency of the value choices and offers a means of justifying them. Recommendations and Outlook. It is recommended that the value base is described in terms of 1) what is included in the concern for the environment 2) how tradeoffs are made and 3) how uncertainty is handled.Goal, Scope and Background. Task Force 1 of the UNEP/SETAC Life Cycle Initiative prepared a report on the available Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) databases around the world. The group also aims to capture the global status of LCA through the report. Results. An update of a previous summary prepared in May 2002 (Norris and Notten 2002), the global LCI resources report identifies LCI databases including public and proprietary, or restricted-access, databases. It includes descriptions of activities that aim to develop publicly-available databases in Africa, the APEC region and Asia, Europe, and the Americas (Canada, USA and Latin America). Because of their close association with the distribution of LCI data, LCA software programs that contain inventory data are also included in this effort. The report also lists institutions or organisations that provide LCI data in a less formal way, as this is important to get a feel for the global spread of LCI data. Also with the aim of facilitating access to global LCI data resources, the report provides information on regional LCA networks and societies. The focus of the report is on LCI databases and LCI data providers. It therefore does not list general environmental or process data sources (i.e. data must be in the form of life cycle inventories), nor does it list institutions working solely with LCA methodology development. Discussion. The LCI data resources are surnmarised in the report in a series of tables. One table provides an ove
rview of the global spread of LCI data resources, and essentially provides a top-level summary of the subsequent tables, whilst another lists LCA societies and networks. Other LCI databases are listed in the report in four tables, including national database projects, industry databases, other data sources, and LCA software. The appendix presents brief descriptive paragraphs of all the data sources and organisations mentioned in the report. Recommendation. The full report is available upon request from the Task Force via Mary Ann Curran; readers are asked to provide updated or additional information that will improve the accuracy of the report.Most forest carbon assessments focus only on biomass carbon and assume that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from forestry activities are minimal. This study took an in-depth look at the direct and indirect emissions from Pacific Northwest (PNW) Douglas-fir [Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirbel) Franco] forestry activities to support or deny this claim. Greenhouse gas budgets for 408 "management regimes" were calculated using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. These management regimes were comprised of different combinations of three types of seedlings (P + 1, 1 + 1, and large plug), two types of site preparation (pile and burn, and chemical), 17 combinations of management intensity including fertilization, herbicide treatment, precommercial thinning (PCT), commercial thinning (CT), and nothing, and four different rotation ages (30, 40, 50, and 60 yr). Normalized to 50 yr, average direct GHG emissions were 8.6 megagrams (Mg) carbon dioxide equivalents (CO(2)e) ha(-1), which accounted for 84% of total GHG emissions from the average of 408 management regimes. Harvesting (PCT, CT, and clear cuffing) contributed the most to total GHG emissions (5.9 Mg CO(2)e per 700 m(3) harvested timber), followed by pile and burn site preparation (4.0 Mg CO(2)e ha(-1) or 32% of total GHG emissions) and then fertilization (1.9 Mg CO(2)e, ha(-1) or 15% of total GHG emissions). Seedling production, seedling transportation, chemical site preparation, and herbicide treatment each contributed less than 1% of total GHG emissions when assessed per hectare of planted timberland. Total emissions per 100 m(3) averaged 1.6 Mg CO(2)e ha(-1) over all 408 management regimes. An uncertainty analysis using Monte Carlo simulations revealed that there are significant differences between most alternative management regimes.More than 50 000 wastewater treatment plants are operating in the European Union, producing more than 7.9 million tons of dry solids per year. The amount of sewage sludge will continue to increase as the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directives continues to be implemented in the different member countries. It is now undeniable that various toxic organic compounds, such as surfactants, hydrocarbons and residues derived from plastics are found in sewage sludge. The BIOWASTE project, under the EU 5th framework programme, offers an integrated study of xenobiotics throughout sludge recycling, using a combination of complementary approaches such as biotechnology, eco-toxicology, plant toxicology, analytical chemistry, microbiology, mathematical modelling, life cycle costing and life cycle analysis. This paper presents an overview of the results as well as their implication on the current EU regulatory work in progress concerning s
ewage sludge application. Particularly, two major findings are here detailed: the isolation, characterization and use of anaerobic xenobiotic-degrading microorganisms, and the modelling of the fate and impact of xenobiotics on anaerobic digestion.Most adverse environmental impacts result from design decisions made long before manufacturing or usage. In order to prevent this situation, several authors have proposed the application of life cycle assessment (LCA) at the very first phases of the design of a process, a product or a service. The study in this paper presents an innovative thermal drying process for sewage sludge called fry-drying, in which dewatered sludge is directly contacted in the dryer with hot recycled cooking oils (RCO) as the heat medium. Considering the practical difficulties for the disposal of these two wastes, fry-drying presents a potentially convenient method for their combined elimination by incineration of the final fry-dried sludge. An analytical comparison between a conventional drying process and the new proposed fry-drying process is reported, with reference to some environmental impact categories. The results of this study, applied at the earliest stages of the design of the process, assist evaluation of the feasibility of such system compared to a current disposal process for the drying and incineration of sewage sludge.In this article an economic and environmental study is carried out on PV solar energy installations connected to the Spanish electrical grid system. The study has been performed on installations situated in the city of Zaragoza (with an irradiation value approximately equal to the average value for Spain). Initially, an economical study is performed, proposing different scenarios where different values of interest rate and energy tariffs are considered. The following parameters are used to determine the profitability of a PV installation: the Net Present Value and the Pay-Back Period. Furthermore, the environmental benefits of PV systems connected to the grid have been evaluated. This has been accomplished using the Life Cycle Analysis theory of the systems, calculating the recuperation time of the invested energy, the contamination or emissions avoided and the externality costs. Finally the possible effects of the application of the Kyoto Protocol have been studied. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.We analyze the economic incentive structure as well as the environmental implications of the current national policy for recycling notebook computers (NB's) in the nation of Taiwan. Using cost-benefit analysis and formal life cycle assessment (LCA) we critique the current program and recommend future improvements. The current policy requires manufacturers to, pay a recycling fee for each unit sold domestically. These payments are channeled to third party recycling agents as well as consumers that return used NB's. While sound in principle, the arrangement falls short of providing incentives for sustaining the domestic recycling infrastructure, scarcely covering operating costs and leaving little capital to develop new recycling technologies. The current program also fails to induce widespread consumer participation by relying on an economic incentive that compares poorly with the value obtainable from resale on the second-hand market. An environmental assessment of various end-of-life d
isposal options for NBs reveals that recycling for some components actually leads to greater negative environment impacts than the alternatives. Economic efficiency of the program was analyzed by integrating the life cycle assessment and the cost-benefit analysis. Our assessment suggests that a revised policy should hold manufacturers directly responsible for the development of recycling technologies and encourage changes in the design phase of the commercial life cycle rather than stressing recovery and recycling. Because of Taiwan's premier position in global NB manufacturing, and in light of numerous international initiatives mandating electronic waste recycling, national policies should coordinate domestic manufacturing with foreign programs to reduce the environmental impact from NBs across the life cycle in nations around the globe. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The objective of this study was to carry out comparative evaluation of four decision-making methods that involves consideration of both environmental and economic aspects in the end-of-life stage of a washing machine, and to suggest priorities for recycling and ecodesign of the washing machine. The four methods chosen were: two-dimensional diagram, eco-efficiency, monetary method and multi-attribute decision-making (MADM). A life cycle assessment (LCA) was used to quantify the environmental aspects of components in a defined product system, and sales prices as well as costs associated with the disposal of the components were considered for the evaluation of their economic aspects. The two-dimensional diagram, the monetary method and the MADM all showed similar results. However, the results of the eco-efficiency method were quite different. When making decisions that consider both environmental and economic aspects of a component in its end-of-life stage, it is recommended to use all these four methods concurrently because all four methods have their own pros and cons. By applying several methods simultaneously, decision makers are in a better position to make decisions about choosing components that are environmentally friendly and economically efficient. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Recycling of plant nutrients in sewage products to arable land is considered to be a step towards a more sustainable society. Sewage sludge is the predominant sewage fertiliser product available today, but the use of sewage sludge in agriculture has been questioned as regards hazardous substances. In this respect, blackwater from separating systems seems to better fulfil agricultural requirements regarding fertiliser products. The objective of this paper was to analyse the environmental impact and resource use in a life cycle perspective for three systems, each including both wastewater handling and agricultural production. In the reference system, food waste disposers were installed in houses. Milled food waste and wastewater were treated in a wastewater treatment plant and the sewage sludge was used for producing a soil conditioner. In the sludge utilisation system, food waste from households was composted, wastewater was treated conventionally and sewage sludge was used in oat production. In the blackwater system, toilet water from low-flush toilets and milled organic waste were digested together and spread in growing oats. Data on the wastewater system were derived
 from simulations by the substance-flow model URWARE/ORWARE. The blackwater system required slightly more primary energy than the other two systems. In particular, construction of storage facilities contributed considerably to energy use. The emissions of greenhouse gases and SO2 were of the same magnitude for all three systems, while the eutrophying emissions were reduced significantly in the blackwater system. As regards NH3 and NOx, the emissions were highest for the blackwater system. High substitution of mineral fertiliser, optimal spreading technique and well-designed collection and storage facilities were important factors for the environmental outcome in the blackwater system. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.An experimental study of road building and recycling of used pavement has been conducted within the framework of a Life Cycle Analysis. Four equivalent asphalt concretes made with different recycling rates have been investigated during road construction. Airborne emissions, pollutant release over time and odor production related to asphalt laying have all been determined and compared among the various recycling rates. All of the results (VOC, PAH and odors), expressed in terms of concentrations and fluxes, exhibit quite monotonic variations with respect to the recycling rate. These results, however, did not reveal the same trend as a function of the recycling rate (increases or decreases), depending on the selected target parameter (VOC or PAH). Indicators have been proposed for a discussion of results that take into account: (i) raw material emissions with respect to the reference defined in the case of pavement without reclaimed asphalt; and (ii) emissions in each case from all material production sources. (c) 2006 Published by Elsevier B.V.Industries are becoming progressively more aware of the environmental and social liabilities pertaining to their operations and products, with associated financial effects. Uncertainties in measuring these financial effects can be addressed by using environmental evaluation and accounting techniques. Environmental accounting assists in expressing environmental and social liabilities as environmental costs. While environmental accounting systems now form part of industrial decision making in first world countries, there is a lack of similar systems in South Africa. The EEGECOST model was developed to promote environmental accounting in South Africa. Implementation of the model will provide South African industries with the framework for corporate evaluation of alternative investments, projects and processes and for estimating economic and environmental performance at present and especially in the future. The model identifies, records and allocates internal and external environmental costs to five identified cost types, categorised into several environmental media groups. It also assists in the capital budgeting process for alternative investments. Applicability of the model was tested in a case study conducted on the life cycle assessment of a functional unit of one million cigarettes. The model indicated that Type V costs (external costs, with Types I to W being different internal cost types) contributed 12% of the total production costs of a functional unit of cigarettes. As Type V costs are subjective, it is recommended that further research be conducted to structure an objec
tive framework to evaluate and determine cost factors involved in the development of Type V costs. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Integrated fruit production (IFP) has been practiced in Switzerland on a large scale basis since the late 1980s, with the aim of improving sustainable fanning. The guidelines of IFP emphasise an ecosystem approach that is based on scientific knowledge about self-regulatory mechanisms at the tree and orchard level. Empirical studies at the farm level are rare. An understanding of the relationship between income and environmental impacts at the farm level is a prerequisite for devising a robust system for orchard portfolio management. An income analysis based on full cost principle and environmental life cycle assessment were applied to 445 annual data sets of apple orchards, recorded on 12 specialised fruit farms over a period of 4 years. The main result was that environmental impacts such as ecotoxicity, eutrophication and non-renewable energy use did not necessarily increase when farms increased their income. A higher input level of pesticides, fertilisers and machinery did not lead to increased yields and receipts. In contrast, the choice of apple cultivars and high investment in pre-harvest labour hours were significantly correlated with high eco-efficieney and high farm income. The results of this study were summarised in a pyramid-shaped management model, providing key issues of successful orchard farming and attributing management rules to master them. The management pyramid indicates that cognitive competences such as distributional, conditional and non-linear thinking are crucial when knowledge from tree and orchard management is integrated at the farm level. A main recommendation is that more attention should be paid to improving management competence in order to contribute to sustainable farming. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The Life Cycle Assessment of four CO2 recovery technologies, combined with nine CO2 sequestration systems, serves to expand the debate of CO2 mitigation methods beyond a single issue-prevention of global warming-to a wider range of environmental concerns: resource depletion, acidic and toxic gases, wastes, etc, so that the overall, and unexpected, environmental impacts may be revealed.In order to evaluate alternative agricultural production methods that may reduce environmental impacts, assessment tools are required that measure the consequences of changing systems. This paper explores the usefulness of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) in identifying environmental improvement opportunities in horticultural systems. LCA has been applied to three commercial apple (Malus x domestica, Borkh.) orchards and two reference orchards, representing standard practices according to expert advice, in New Zealand. Variability observed in the results suggests growers' technique exerts considerable impact on the LCA results, introducing variances of 30-50% in energy consumption and other environmental impacts when performing the same field operation. Despite a small sample size, the origins of the environmental impacts resulting from these examples of Integrated Fruit Production (IFP) were observed to be generally similar. Human toxicity related impacts were dominated by emissions of the synthetic pesticides used in IFP, and were thoroughly modelled in the study. The productio
n of pesticides and agricultural machinery was found to be significant in the overall energy consumption of the orchard; pesticide production represented 10-20% of energy consumption, while machinery production accounted for 7-12% of energy consumption in all study sites. The application of LCA helped to identify improvement opportunities to reduce environmental impacts within this and related production systems, and demonstrated its usefulness in setting priorities to realise these opportunities. LCA is a holistic approach that measures the different environmental impacts from agriculture and is useful for the development of certification schemes such as EUREP GAP, or the assessment of the environmental soundness of agricultural technologies. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.In this study we assessed to what extent management of apple-growing within a well defined fanning system affects environmental impacts. A four-year data set of 12 fruit farms from eastern Switzerland was analyzed using the life cycle assessment (LCA) method to evaluate the variability of different environmental impacts. For the total of 445 annual data sets of apple orchards eight impact categories were assessed. A principal component analysis (PCA) was performed to group the eight impact categories according to their correlation. A three component solution turned out to be adequate. It indicated that the three impact categories energy use, aquatic ecotoxicity and aquatic eutrophication were influenced independently of each other to a high degree. These three key impacts can be managed by keeping the inputs of machinery, pesticides and fertilizers low. Production constraints were highly homogeneous within the sample. Because of this, we were able to define the management influence on environmental impacts as the ratio of the maximum and minimum observed. On a per hectare basis, the effect of management for energy use was factor 2, for aquatic ecotoxicity factor 4 and for aquatic eutrophication factor 1.1. In contrast, when measured per receipts, the management influence was greater than per hectare, indicated by a range of factor 6 for each of the three key impact categories. Further insight into the effect of management was attained by statistical risk assessment. A positive and significant correlation between mean value (M) and the coefficient of variance (CV) indicated that the expected risk could be reduced by a low level of variability. Such a M-CV correlation was found for the two key impact categories energy use and aquatic eutrophication if calculated per receipts. No M-CV correlation was found for aquatic ecotoxicity. It was on the other hand observed that farms with low aquatic ecotoxicity also practiced low energy use and low eutrophication on a per receipt basis. We conclude that the promotion of environmentally sound apple-growing is not only a question of choosing one or the other fanning system (e.g. organic versus integrated fanning) but that an understanding of the system specific management influence is crucial. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This study quantifies the possible impacts of urban heat-island countermeasures upon buildings' energy use during summer in Tokyo metropolis. Considering the dependency of the buildings air temperature upon the local urban canopy structure, Tokyo urban canopies were classified in the city
-block-scale using the sky-view factor (svf). Then, a multi-scale model system describing the interaction between buildings' energy use and urban meteorological conditions was applied to each classified canopy. In terms of urban warming alleviation and cooling energy saving, simulations suggested that the reduction in the air-conditioning anthropogenic heat could be the most effective measure in office buildings' canopies, and that vegetative fraction increase oil the side walls of buildings in residential canopies. Both measures indicated daily and spatially averaged decreases in near-ground summer air temperature of 0.2-1.2 degrees C. The simulations also suggested these temperature decreases could result in the buildings' cooling energy-savings of 4-40%, indicating remarkable savings in residential canopies. These temperature drops and energy savings tended to increase with the decrease of the svf of urban canopies. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Designing more sustainable processes is one of the key challenges for sustainable development of the chemical industry. This is by no means a trivial task as it requires translating the theoretical principles of sustainable development into design practice. At present, there is no general methodology to guide sustainable process design and almost no practical experience. In an attempt to contribute to this emerging area, this paper proposes a new methodology for integrating sustainability considerations into process design. Underpinned by life cycle thinking, the methodology guides the process designer through different design stages to enable integration of technical, economic, environmental and social criteria. The approach is illustrated on a design case study of the vinyl chloride monomer process. The case study shows how to identify relevant sustainability criteria, how to assess the level of sustainability and how to use the obtained information to make the design more sustainable.Linkages between Human and Environmental Risk Assessment (HERA) and Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) can be analyzed at three levels: the basic equations to describe environmental behavior and dose-response relationships of chemicals; the overall model structure of these tools; and the applications of the tools. At level 1 few differences exist: both tools use essentially the same fate and effect models, including their coefficients and data. At level 2 distinctive differences emerge: regional or life-cycle perspective, emission pulses or fluxes, scope of chemicals and types of impacts, use of characterization factors, spatial and temporal detail, aggregation of effects, and the functional unit as basis of the assessment. Although the two tools typically differ in all these aspects, only the functional unit issue renders the tools fundamentally different, expressing itself also in some main characteristics of the modeling structure. This impedes full integration, which is underpinned in mathematical terms. At level 3 the aims of the tools are complementary: quantified risk estimates of chemicals for HERA versus quantified product assessment for LCA. Here, beneficial synergism is possible between the two tools, as illustrated by some cases. These also illustrate that where full integration is suggested, in practice this is not achieved, thus in fact supporting the conclusions.In life-cycle assessment (LCA
), it is desirable to compare quantities of chemicals released into the environment in terms of the risk and consequences of toxicological effects. Many current methods rely directly on adaptations of regulatory-orientated approaches. The resultant hazard-based indicators reflect differences in maximum likely individual exposure in the region for an emission and differences in regulatory limits. Such regulatory hazard-based indicators, however, may not provide a consistent basis for relative comparison across chemicals in terms of toxicological risk, as they were not designed for this application purpose. It is therefore essential to consider other methods in LCA to provide comparative estimates, taking into account the full extent of toxicological risks and differences in consequences. This article provides a step-by-step description of the methodological similarities and differences between such risk and hazard based indicators for LCA. An example for benzo[a]pyrene demonstrates a risk-based methodology, highlighting relationships with regulatory approaches and problems that remain in current practice.We describe a composite freshwater Aquatic Toxicity Index (ATI) for chronic toxicity conditions that can be easily computed for a broad range of chemicals. The ATI expresses the potential toxic impact of chemicals on the ecosystem, scaling the potency of each chemical with respect to a reference compound (1,4 dichlorobenzene). It is based on a simple stochastic process model and a few inherent properties of each chemical, such as chronic toxicity, adsorption coefficient to sediments, and Henry's Law constant. Our goal is to provide a simple compartmental model for obtaining a rough quantitative assessment of the life-cycle environmental impact of life-cycle emissions inventory data. To illustrate the potential of our approach we compare the ATI index, for a small set of chemicals, with comparable measures of freshwater aquatic ecotoxicity potential and freshwater sediment ecotoxicity potential obtained by others using the European-based impact assessment tool USES-LCA, which is based on a more elaborate fate and transport model. The rank correlation between the ATI and USES-LCA indices is greater than 0.85, showing surprisingly good agreement given the simple nature of our model. More analysis of the differences between ATI and the results of other models is needed, but these results suggest that our model may be useful for priority setting and meta-modeling applications.The historical parallels, complementary roles, and potential for integration of human health risk assessment (RA) and Life-Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) are explored. Previous authors have considered the comparison of LCA and risk assessment recognizing the inherent differences in LCA and risk assessment ( e.g. , LCA's focus on the functional unit, and the differences in perspective of LCA and risk assessment), and also the commonalities ( e.g. , the basis for the modeling). Until this time, however, no one has proposed a coordinated approach for conducting LCA and risk assessment using models consistent with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (USEPA's) handbooks, policies, and guidelines. The current status of LCIA methodology development can be compared to the early days of human health RA when practitioners were overwhelmed with the model choices, assumptions, 
lack of data, and poor data quality. Although methodology developers can build on the shoulders of the giant, LCIA requires more innovation to deal with more impact categories, more life-cycle stages, and less data for a greater number of stressors. For certain impact categories, LCIA can use many of the guidelines, methodologies, and default parameters that have been developed for human health RA, in conjunction with sensitivity and uncertainty analysis to determine the level of detail necessary for various applications. LCIA can then identify "hot spots that require the additional detail and level of certainty provided by RA. A comparison of the USEPA's Tool for the Reduction and Assessment of Chemical and other environmental Impacts (TRACI) and the USEPA's Risk-Screening Environmental Indicators (RSEI) will be explored.Life-cycle assessment (LCA) is a tool for evaluating various health and environmental impacts throughout a product's life. When used as a screening tool, LCA can potentially identify the processes and materials most likely to pose a threat to human health and the environment, and to determine where a risk assessment is warranted. The European Union has issued a ban on lead-based solder from use in electronic equipment beginning in July 2006. In response, the Lead-Free Solder Partnership, involving the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, several electronics manufacturers, and the University of Tennessee afforded a vehicle for conducting a thorough LCA of leaded and lead-free solders used in the electronics industry. Sixteen impact categories were evaluated in the LCA, including human toxicity. A primary conclusion of the assessment for human and aquatic toxicity, across the entire life cycle of tin-lead solder, was the potential for impacts derived from the landfilling of lead. These results, based on broad assumptions about exposure, suggest that a more detailed risk assessment of the landfilling process would assist in better understanding the potential for health and environmental risks. We believe LCA data can be used to identify the need for focused risk assessments, allowing the two tools to effectively complement one another. Use of both methods could assist in understanding the effectiveness of the European ban on lead solder and its potential to improve public health.One of the ways in which risk assessment can inform life-cycle analysis (LCA) is by providing a mechanism to translate midpoint categories into common endpoints. Although this analytical step is complex and often highly uncertain, it can allow for prioritization among disparate midpoints and subsequent analytical refinements focused on the endpoints that dominate policy decisions. In this article, we present an approach to address three widely differing impact categories-particulate matter air pollution, greenhouse gas emissions, and personal income. We use the case of increased residential insulation as a measure to reduce energy consumption, which implies economic and public health tradeoffs across all three categories. We apply previously developed models that combined input-output LCA and risk assessment to address public health impacts from particulate matter, and extend the framework to address greenhouse gases and the public health consequences of changes in income. For a hypothetical loan program applied to both new and existing single-fami
ly homes, we find a payback period of approximately one year for the particulate matter and greenhouse gas-related midpoints and endpoints, with the structure of the loan implying that no economic payback is required. Our central estimates for avoided disability adjusted life years (DALYs) for a 50-year period are approximately 200,000 for particulate matter, 900,000 for greenhouse gases, and 300,000 for income changes, although values are highly dependent on discount rates and other model assumptions. We conclude that all three impact categories are potentially significant in this case, indicating that analytical refinements should be considered for all three impact categories to reduce model uncertainties. Our study demonstrates how LCA and risk assessment can work together in a framework that includes multiple impact categories, aiding in the evaluation of the net impacts of an energy policy change on society.A life cycle assessment (LCA) of one proposed method of hydrogen production-the high temperature electrolysis of water vapor-is presented in this paper. High temperature electrolysis offers an advantage of higher energy efficiency over the conventional low-temperature alkaline electrolysis due to reduced cell potential and consequent electrical energy requirements. The primary energy source for the electrolysis will be advanced nuclear reactors operating at temperatures corresponding to those required for the high temperature electrolysis. The LCA examines the environmental impact of the combined advanced nuclear-hi h temperature electrolysis plant, focusing upon quantifying the emissions of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides per kilogram of hydrogen produced. The results are presented in terms of the global warming potential (GWP) and the acidification potential (AP) of the system. The GWP for the system is 2000g carbon dioxide equivalent and the AP, 0.15g equivalents of hydrogen ion equivalent per kilogram of hydrogen produced. The GWP and AP of this process are one-sixth and one-third. respectively, of those for the hydrogen production by steam reforming of natural gas, and are comparable to producing hydrogen from wind- or hydro-electricity powered conventional electrolysis. (c) 2005 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The present study shows the results and methodology applied to the study of the identification of priority product categories for Belgian product and environmental policy The main goal of the study was to gather insight into the consumption of products in Belgium and their related life-cycle environmental impacts. The conclusions of this project on the product categories with major environmental contributions can be used to start up working groups involving stakeholders and initiate detailed product studies on the impact reduction potential that could be achieved by means of implementing product policy measures. Several ways of assessing product category environmental impacts and the effects of policy measures have been developed; 'bottom-up' or'market-life-cycle assessment' is one of these, and we tried this approach for the situation in Belgium. Simplified life-cycle assessment (LCA) studies were conducted for representative average products within each function-based product category and the results were multiplied with market statisti
cs. Using this approach, we found that building construction, building occupancy, and personal transport are among the major categories for Belgium. The major drawbacks of this approach are the system-level limitations and the existence of a broad spectrum of nonharmonized methods and clatasets from which a sound preliminary selection had to be made. Consequently, the retrieval and selection of data was very time consuming and due to this we had to accept some major limitations in the study design. Nevertheless, the study has contributed to the development of a methodology for market-LCA and elements that can be picked up in currently ongoing and future work. The study concludes that to improve the feasibility and acceptance of this type of study there is a need for the development of a harmonized methodology on market-LCA, policy-relevant impact indicators as well as a harmonized and stakeholder-agreed-upon LCA databases.The 1990s policy trend of intervening at the specification level over a broad range of products has ended. Today's environmental product policies focus, rather, on a few arbitrary product groups. Selectiveness should serve absolute environmental impact reduction, which asks for a rational product-selection and target framework. The authors propose "life-cycle impact per consumer expenditure" as a key criterion. This criterion helps to connect macro environmental impact reduction aims with product innovation targets, even under continuous economic growth, consumption pattern shifts, and rebound threats. The authors analyze the Dutch economy as an exercise. This results in 44 product groups, labeled "Hyenas" by the authors, that need to improve their ratio score drastically between now and 2040. Some magnitudes of desired change are given. Finally, intervention processes at the Hyena group level along the lines of sustainable transition management are proposed. joint visioning, experimental portfolios, interaction between micro, meso, and macro change levels, and gradual pressure building are crucial elements in this concept of complex change management.For developing product policy, insight into the environmental effects of products is required. But available life-cycle assessment studies (LCAs) are hardly comparable between different products and do not cover total consumption. Input-output analysis with environmental extensions (EEIOA) of full consumption is not available for the European Union. Available country studies have a low sector resolution and a limited number of environmental extensions, This study fills the gap between detailed LCA and low-resolution EEIOA, specifying the environmental effects of household consumption in the European Union, discerning nearly 500 sectors, while specifying a large number of environmental extensions. Added to the production sectors are a number of consumption activities with direct emissions, such as automobile driving, cooking and heating, and a number of postconsumer waste management sectors. The data for Europe have been constructed by using the sparse available and coarse economic and environmental data on European countries and adding technological detail mainly based on data from the United States. A small number of products score high on environmental impact per Euro and also have a substantial share of overall consumer expenditure. Several meat and dairy products, house
hold heating, and car driving thus have a large share of the total environmental impact. Due to their sales volume, however, products with a medium or low environmental score per Euro may also have a substantial impact. This is the case with bars and restaurants, clothing, residential construction, and even a service such as telecommunications. The limitations in real European data made heroic assumptions necessary to operationalize the model. One conclusion, therefore, is that provision of data in Europe urgently needs to be improved, at least to the level of sector detail currently available for the United States and Japan.Integrated product policy, according to the European Union, requires reliable data on the impact of consumer products along their life cycles. We argue that this necessarily requires the development of an information tool for hybrid analysis, combining aspects of life-cycle assessment and input-output analysis. A number of requirements in the development of such a hybrid information tool are identified, mainly concerning data and computational structure. For the former, some important points of attention are discussed, whereas for the latter, operational formulas are developed.Environmental effects of economic activities are ultimately driven by consumption, via impacts of the production, use, and waste management phases of products and services ultimately consumed. Integrated product policy (IPP) addressing the life-cycle impacts of products forms an innovative new generation of environmental policy Yet this policy requires insight into the final consumption expenditures and related products that have the greatest life-cycle environmental impacts. This review article brings together the conclusions of 11 studies that analyze the life-cycle impacts of total societal consumption and the relative importance of different final consumption categories, This review addresses in general studies that were included in the project Environmental Impacts of Products (EIPRO) of the European Union (EU), which form the basis of this special issue. Unlike most studies done in the past 25 years on similar topics, the studies reviewed here covered a broad set of environmental impacts beyond just energy use or carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The studies differed greatly in basic approach (extrapolating LCA data to impacts of consumption categories versus approaches based on environmentally extended input-output (EEIO) tables), geographical region, disaggregation of final demand, data inventory used, and method of impact assessment. Nevertheless, across all studies a limited number of priorities emerged. The three main priorities, housing, transport, and food, are responsible for 70% of the environmental impacts in most categories, although covering only 55% of the final expenditure in the 25 countries that currently make up the EU. At a more detailed level, priorities are car and most probably air travel within transport, meat and dairy within food, and building structures, heating, and (electrical) energy-using products within housing. Expenditures on clothing, communication, health care, and education are considerably less important. Given the very different approaches followed in each of the sources reviewed, this result hence must be regarded as extremely robust. Recommendations are given to harmonize and improve the methodological 
approaches of such analyses, for instance, with regard to modeling of imports, inclusion of capital goods, and making an explicit distinction between household and government expenditure.In this paper. the methodology of life-cycle assessment was applied to an ethanol production process based on fermentation. The purpose of the assessment was to quantify environmental performance of the process and to prepare a basis for environmental comparisons with the ethanol production process based on catalytic reaction. The assessment was carried only on the stages of raw material acquisition through ethanol manufacture since it was assumed that ethanol from both processes had the same environmental impacts through its use and discard. The assessment results showed that the major environmental impact came from the sub-process of producing starch from corn and the most severe burden was generated in the form of acidification and greenhouse effect.In this paper. the methodology of life-cycle assessment was applied to an ethanol production process based on catalytic reaction. The environmental performance of the process was quantified and compared with that of the fermentation process. The purpose of the assessment was to develop design guidelines for the environmentally better ethanol production. The assessment was carried only on the stages of raw material acquisition through ethanol manufacture since it was assumed that ethanol from two processes had the same environmental impacts through its use and discard. The inventory analysis of the catalytic process resulted in that carbon dioxide from methanol production was the major environmental impact. The impact assessment showed that the fermentation process was environmentally better than the catalytic one. Suggestions for environmental improvement of the catalytic process were prepared based on the assessment results.Presented in this paper is an integrated approach of computer-aided product development, process design and operation analysis based on a kilo-plant. The implemented kilo-plant, as a research platform to manufacture product in kilogram-scale, was designed especially for fine and specialty chemicals. The characteristics of product synthesis, process operation and product quality control are investigated coupled with computer-aided monitoring, online modeling, simulation and operation process optimization. In this way, chemical product discovery, process design and operation are integrated in a systematic approach, in the aim to respond to rapid changing marketplace demands to new products.The total crude steel production in Asian countries was 500 million t in 2004, which accounted for 47% of the total crude steel production in the world. There have been a large demand of steel scraps in Asian countries, which Japan exported 2.5 million t of steel scrap to China, 1.91 million t to Korea and 0.9 million t to Taiwan in 2003. According to our previous studies, steel scrap generation in Japan will increase until 2030. Change in steel scrap demand in Asian countries in the future will make a great influence on the amount and quality of Japan's steel scrap domestic consumption and export. In this work, estimated was the quality change in domestic steel production (Electric Arc Furnace steel for buildings & constructions) by steel scrap exports. The method based on population balance model and 
material pinch analysis was applied to assess the quality of domestic steel production and steel scrap consumption. The data concerning the quality (copper content) of steel scraps and recovery ratio of steel scrap from post consumer products were updated. It was found that quality requirements on steel scraps to other countries could have large influence on the quality of domestic steel.However excellent a product may be environmentally, it would not come into wide use in the economy to realize its environmental load reducing potential unless it is also economically affordable. Life-cycle costing (LCC) is a tool to assess the cost of a product over its entire life cycle, and can be regarded as an economic counterpart of LCA. A combined use of LCA and LCC would be imperative for assessing the sustainability of a product or product systems in the economy. This paper presents a new methodology of LCC which gives the cost and price counterpart of the hybrid LCA tool (Waste Input-Output, WIO) that was developed by Nakamura and Kondo (2002) [Nakamura, S., Kondo, Y., 2002. Input-output analysis of waste management. Journal of Industrial Ecology 6 (1), 39-63.1]for LCA of waste management. Building upon the preceding LCA study by Kondo and Nakamura (2004) [Kondo, Y., Nakamura, S., 2004. Evaluating alternative life-cycle strategies for electrical appliances by the waste input-output model. International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment 9 (4), 236-246.], the applicability of the methodology is illustrated by a case study of electric appliances under alternative end-of-life scenarios: landfilling, intensive recycling that is consistent with the Japanese law on the recycling of appliances, and an advanced form of intensive recycling augmented by Design for Disassembly (DfD). Application of the proposed LCC methodology indicates that while the life-cycle cost is the highest under intensive recycling and the lowest under landfilling, the cost of recycling can be reduced by appropriate implementation of MD. The possible introduction of a carbon tax is also found to significantly reduce the cost disadvantage of recycling against landfilling. Given the high level of environmental load associated with landfilling and the possible introduction of carbon taxes, Design for Environment or EcoDesign emerges as a strategy of vital importance to achieve the sustainability of appliances. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This paper presents a building environmental performance analysis system-BEPAS, which was developed based on the life cycle assessment (LCA) framework. In BEPAS, environmental impacts were investigated in three main aspects of a building that were closely related to environmental performance-building facilities, building materials and location. In addition, a set of environmental databases were developed, covering the environmental performance profiles of these environmental aspects. The BEPAS can be used to assess the environmental performance of a new or existing building. This paper also discusses a case project in order to illustrate the assessment procedures and test the effectiveness of the system in application. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The purpose of this short overview paper is to set out the basic meaning of the concept of sustainable development and the challenges it poses for society. The paper also explores 
the complexities that surround attempts to operationalize sustainability principles. What decision-makers at various levels in society require is a decision support system that includes methods and techniques capable of measuring sustainable development progress ( or the lack of it). However, because sustainability itself is a multifaceted concept and process, a range of often divergent perspectives (worldviews) may all be judged relevant to the translation of the ideas into practice. The as yet unanswered question is how can decision-makers be offered a comprehensive yet consistent and coherent package of decision-making aids in order to facilitate the sustainability transition.This paper presents a multicriteria decision-making model for lifespan energy efficiency assessment of intelligent buildings (IBs). The decision-making model called IBAssessor is developed using an analytic network process (ANP) method and a set of lifespan performance indicators for IBs selected by a new quantitative approach called energy-time consumption index (ETI). In order to improve the quality of decision-making, the authors of this paper make use of previous research achievements including a lifespan sustainable business model, the Asian IB Index, and a number of relevant publications. Practitioners can use the IBAssessor ANP model at different stages of an IB lifespan for either engineering or business oriented assessments. Finally, this paper presents an experimental case study to demonstrate how to use IBAssessor ANP model to solve real-world design tasks. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier B.V.Sustainability of biomass based fuel use requires that in biomass production erosion and water usage do not exceed addition to stocks of soil and water and that levels of nutrients and organic matter in soils do not decrease. Levels of volatile carbon compounds and N2O in the atmosphere should remain unaffected. To maintain ecosystems services of nature useful to mankind, restriction of biomass production to degraded and currently fallow land is to be preferred. Also sustainability of biomass-for-energy use requires a high efficiency recycling of nutrients present in ashes and low emissions of persistent organics, acidifying compounds and heavy metals due to biomass combustion. Meeting such conditions requires major efforts. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Background. Stratospheric ozone depletion is one of the important environmental issues for LCIA. The National LCA Project of Japan has developed a framework of LCIA since 1998, which tackles the issue employing an endpoint approach. Although the basic components were available in 2000, it was required that the target endpoints should be expanded in particular. Objective. This study aimed at expanding the scope of damage function of ozone depletion in the LCIA framework of LIME. Damage function gives potential and quantitative damage for each endpoint per unit emission of ODS. Methods. Marginal damage due to the unit emission of ODS was calculated for 13 substances for which quantitative information was available as follows: (1) the increase of UVB radiation at the earth's surface per unit emission of ODS was estimated, (2) the increase of potential damage per unit increase of UVB radiation was estimated, (3) the increase of potential damage per unit emission of ODS was determined by connecting the two r
elationships, and (4) correcting by the atmospheric lifetime of ODS, so that the damage function was then obtained. For other ODSs regulated by the Montreal Protocol, their damage functions were estimated by multiplying the ratio of ODP compared to the corresponding reference substance by the damage function of this reference substance. Results and Discussion. The damage function of ozone depletion included the following endpoints: skin cancer and cataract for human health, crop production and timber production for social assets, and terrestrial NPP and aquatic NPP for primary productivity. And damage factors for each safeguard subject were also obtained. Conclusion. The damage function of ozone depletion could cover all ODSs regulated by the Montreal Protocol and also cover important endpoints. Uncertainty of damage function is also an important point to be elucidated. Preliminary studies of uncertainty analysis have begun for the damage function of ozone depletion. However, further analysis is required to comprehensively evaluate the uncertainty of the damage function.Goal and Background. Current Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) procedures have demonstrated certain limitations in the South African manufacturing industry. The aim of this paper is to propose new characterisation and normalisation factors for classified mined abiotic resource depletion categories in the South African context. These factors should reflect the importance of mined resources as they relate to region-specific resource depletion. The method can also be applied to determine global factors. Methods. The reserve base (as in 2001) of the most commonly produced minerals in South Africa is used as basis to determine characterisation factors for a non-renewable mineral resources category. The average production of these minerals from 1991 to 2000 is compared to economically Demonstrated and Demonstrated Marginal Reserves (and not ultimate reserves) to obtain the characterisation factors in equivalence units, with platinum as the reference mineral. Similarly, for a non-renewable energy resources category, coal is used in South Africa as equivalent unit as it is the most important fossil fuel for the country. Crude oil and natural gas resources are currently obtained from reserves elsewhere in the world and chatacterisation factors are therefore determined using global resources and production levels. The normalisation factors are based on the total economic reserves of key South African minerals and world non-renewable energy resources respectively. A case study of the manufacturing of an exhaust system for a standard sedan is used to compare LCIA results for mined abiotic resource categories that are based on current LCIA factors and the new South African factors. Results and Discussion. The South African LCIA procedure differs from current methods in that it shows the importance of other mined resources, i.e. iron ore and crude oil, relative to PGMs and coal for the manufacturing life cycle of the exhaust system. With respect to PGMs, the current characterisation factors are based on the concentrations of the metals in the ores and the ultimate reserves, which are erroneous with respect to the actual avaitability of the mineral resources and the depletion burden placed on these minerals is consequently too high. Conclusions. The South African LCIA procedure for min
ed abiotic resources depletion shows the significance of choosing a method, which is inline with the current situation in the mining industry and its limitations. Recommendations and Outlook. It is proposed to similarly investigate the impacts of the use of other natural resource groups. Water, specifically, must receive attention in the characterisation phase of LCIAs in South African LCAs.Goal, Scope and Background. The goal of the study is a life cycle assessment according to ISO 14040-14043 for wood floor coverings (solid parquet, multilayer parquet, solid floor board and wood blocks). The representative study covers approximately 70% of all wood flooring production in Germany. The comparison of the floor coverings among each other was not the aim. Instead the study provides basic data for all wood floor coverings for a possible comparison with other floor coverings later on. The main focus was a hot spot analysis to help the involved industry partners to improve their environmental performance, and to use the results for marketing purposes. Inventory Analysis. The study covers the whole life cycle from forest management, sawmilling, manufacturing, laying and surface finishing through to refurbishment and end-of-life. The end-of-life scenario is the thermal utilisation of the floor coverings. The energy gained in the end-of-life scenario is accounted for by system expansion (avoided burden approach). Impact Assessment. In the Impact Assessment the following categories were considered: global warming (GW), acidification (AP), eutrophication (EP), ozone depletion (ODP) and photooxidant formation (POCP) following the CML baseline 2000 method. Furthermore the use of primary energy is presented. The low emissions of greenhouse gases during the life cycle can lead to a negative contribution to the global warming potential if more emissions are avoided through the substitution process than are emitted during the life cycle of the product. Mainly energy consumption and the use of solvents influence the environmental impacts of the systems under analysis. The most relevant unit processes for the issue of energy consumption are 'production' and for photo-oxidant formation 'laying', 'surface finishing' and 'refurbishment'. These are therefore the unit processes with the greatest potential for improvement. Normalisation and Sensitivity Analysis. The normalisation results show that the photo-oxidant formation potential is most significant in comparison to the other impact categories. Improvement options and the choice of the functional unit have been further explored in a sensitivity analysis. Discussion and Conclusions. The most important opportunities for improvements are located in the unit processes laying, surface finishing and refurbishment. The POCP result can be reduced significantly depending on the choice of glue and varnish at each of these stages. The results of the sensitivity analysis showed a potential for improvement in this category. No data for the production of an oil and wax finish was available. This option would be interesting to consider at in a further study. The time aspect of storing CO2 for a period of time is not considered in this paper, but will be addressed in a forthcoming paper (Nebel and Cowell 2003).Aim, Scope and Background. The environmental and energy parameters of Photovoltaic systems play a very important ro
le when compared to conventional power systems. In the present paper, a typical PV-system is analyzed to its elements and an assessment of the material and energy requirements during the production procedures is attempted. An LCA is being performed on the system of production of photovoltaics. Main Features. A complete and accurate identification and quantification of air emissions, water effluents, and other life-cycle outputs is performed. The emissions analysis is extended to the production of the primary energy carriers. This allows having a complete picture of the life cycle of all the PV-components described in the present study. Methods and Tools. In order to obtain concrete results from this study, the specific working tool used is the Eco-Indicator '95 as being reliable and has been widely applied within LCA community A process that relates inventory information with relevant concerns about natural resource usage and potential effects of environmental loadings is attempted. Conlusions. The analysis of all previous impact categories has shown that large-scale PV-systems have many advantages in comparison with a conventional power system (e.g. diesel power station) in electricity production. As a matter of fact, PV-systems become part of the environment and the ecosystems from the moment of their installation. Burdens are released from the PV-systems only during their manufacturing procedures. Recommendation. Technological improvements need to be done in the manufacture of BOS-components which consume during their life cycle almost equal amounts of energy as the photovoltaic modules.Goal, Scope and Background. Many disciplines, amongst them LCIA, environmental impact and external cost assessments, are often faced with evaluating trade-offs between two or more alternative options in terms of a range of incommensurable indicators. Using process modeling and valuation, these indicators are quantified at mid- or endpoint levels. Recent discussion amongst LCA experts showed that because of the mutually exclusive aspects of uncertainty and relevance, the midpoint/endpoint debate is controversial and difficult to reconcile. This article is aimed at a more quantitative analysis of mid- and endpoint impacts, and the implications of uncertainty for decision-making. Methods. The consequences for decision-making of uncertainties of endpoints are analysed quantitatively for the example of ExternE results, by employing statistical hypothesis testing. The Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) is then used to demonstrate the use of multi-criteria techniques at midpoint levels. Results and Discussion. Statistical hypothesis testing at the endpoint level shows that for the ExternE example, probabilities of mistakenly favouring one alternative over another when they are in reality indistinguishable can be as high as 80%. Therefore, the best estimate of external cost is inadequate for most policy making purposes. Indicators at midpoint levels are more certain, but since they are only 'proxy attributes', they carry a hidden uncertainty in their relevance. Conclusion. If endpoint information is too uncertain to allow a decision to be made with reasonable confidence, then the assessment can be carried out in midpoint terms. However, midpoint indicators are generally further removed from people's experience, and less relevant to the question that people actual
ly want to solve. Nevertheless, if this ultimate question is unanswerable (within the certainty required by the decision-maker), a decision can be made on the basis of stakeholders' subjective judgments about the more certain midpoint levels. The crucial point is that these judgments are able to intuitively incorporate many aspects that impact modeling and valuation has trouble quantifying, such as perceived risk, distribution of burdens and benefits, equity, ethical, moral, religious and political beliefs and principles, immediacy and reversibility of potential impacts, voluntariness, controllability and familiarity of exposure, or perceived incompleteness of human knowledge.Coal, Scope and Background. Procurement in public and nonpublic organisations has the potential to influence product development towards more environmentally friendly products. This article focuses on public procurement with procurement in Swedish defence as a special case. In 2003, public procurement in Sweden was 28% of the GDP. In the Swedish defence sector the amount was 2% of the GDP. The total emissions from the sector were of the same order of magnitude as from waste treatment (2% of Sweden's emissions). According to an appropriation letter from the Ministry of Defence in 1998, the Swedish Armed Forces (SAF) and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) are required to take environmental issues into consideration during the entire process of acquiring defence materiel. Environmental aspects are considered today, but without a life-cycle perspective. The aims of this article are to recommend suitable tools for taking environmental concerns into account, considering a product's life-cycle, in the procurement process for defence materiel in Sweden; to make suggestions for how these tools could be used in the acquisition process; and to evaluate these suggestions through interviews with actors in the acquisition process . The procurement process does not include aspects specific to Swedish defence, and it is therefore likely to be comparable to processes in other countries. Methods. The method involved a study of current literature and interviews with various actors in the acquisition process. The life cycle methods considered were quantitative Life Cycle Assessments, a simplified LCA-method called the MECO method and Life Cycle Costing (LCC). Results and Discussion. Methodology recommendations for quantitative LCA and simplified LCA are presented in the article, as well as suggestions on how to integrate LCA methods in the acquisition process. We identified four areas for use for LCA in the acquisition process: to learn about environmental aspects of the product; to fulfil requirements from customers; to set environmental requirements and to choose between alternatives. Therefore, tools such as LCAs are useful in several steps in the acquisition process. Conclusion. From the interviews, it became clear that the actors in the acquisition process think that environmental aspects should be included early in the process. The actors are interested in using LCA methods, but there is a need for an initiative from one or several of them if the method is to be used regularly in the process. Environmental and acquisition issues are handled with very little interaction in the controlling and ordering organisation. An integration of environmental and acquisition part
s in these organisations is probably needed in order to integrate environmental aspects in general and life-cycle thinking in particular. Other difficulties identified are costs and time constraints. Recommendation and Perspective. In order to include the most significant aspects when procuring materiel, it is important to consider the whole life-cycle of the products. Our major recommendation is that the defence sector should work systematically through different product groups. For each product group, quantitative, traditional LCAs or simplified LCAs (in this case modified MECOs) should be performed for reference products within each product group. The results should be an identification of critical aspects in the life-cycles of the products. The studies will also form a database that can be used when making new LCAs. This knowledge should then be used when writing specifications of what to procure and setting criteria for procurement. The reports should be publicly available to allow reviews and discussions of results. To make the work more cost-effective, international co-operation should be sought. In addition, LCAs can also be performed as an integrated part of the acquisition process in specific cases.There are a lot of metrics for evaluating the performance of supply chains. However, they may be aggregated as leadtime, customer service, cost, and quality. In this connection the Environmental Protection Agency in the United States issued in 2000 a practical guide called "The Lean and Green Supply Chain". The purpose of the guidebook is to demonstrate the opportunities for improving both financial and environmental performance and to briefly review specific tools and methods. In this paper, we first extend the range of the supply chain to include re-use and recycling throughout the life cycle of products and services. Using our definition, we propose the multiple attribute utility theory method for assessing a supply chain. We consider this approach to be one of the "the lean and green supply chain" methods. We can then evaluate the performance of a supply chain not only from a managerial viewpoint but also from an environmental performance viewpoint. Secondly, we apply this technique to an application study and confirm the efficiency of the proposal. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Designers need practical tools to aid decision making at the conceptual stage of building design. The aim of this paper is to investigate, using the early design model, the comparative impact of varying building parameters on the cost of non-domestic buildings. Cost comprises of the cost of operational energy, capital, and embodied energy (EE). Integrated assessment of cost as a function of the following parameters has been carried out: overall heat loss coefficient, obstruction, depth of room, lighting level, installed illuminance, room temperature, rate of infiltration, efficiency of heating plant, incidental heat gain, glazing ratio, cost of windows, and coefficient of performance of cooler. For the specific non-domestic building considered, inclusion of EE in the analysis does not significantly influence design but may have an impact on material choices.Metal recycling from automobiles, appliances and scrap steel occurs at dedicated metal shredding operations. Shredder residue (SR) consists of glass, rubber, plastics, fibers, dirt, and fin
es that remain after ferrous and nonferrous metals have been removed. The over 3 million tonnes of SR generated in the U.S. each year are managed by landfilling. Material recovery or energy recovery alternatives to landfilling can be beneficial because of conservation of non-renewable resources and reduction of waste disposal. In this study, the human health and environmental impacts of landfilling and three recovery options (supplemental fuel and mineral feed for cement manufacturing, hydrolysis to light fuel oil, and material recovery for recycling) were quantified and characterized using a lifecycle assessment (LCA) approach. Comparisons were carried out after characterization of emissions relative to potential impact categories of global warming, freshwater aquatic toxicity, acidification, eutrophication, human toxicity, photochemical oxidant creation, and terrestrial ecotoxicity. SR recovery in cement manufacturing could result in 1 million tonnes of coal conservation each year for the U.S. Compared to landfilling, recovery of the fuel and mineral value of SR in cement manufacturing provides net benefits for all environmental impact characteristics considered primarily due to avoided coal mining and landfilling impacts. As much as 750,000 tonnes of recyclable materials could be recovered from SR. Material recovery system impact results were very sensitive to process energy requirements as well as the assumptions of percent recovery and the specific material types recovered. Hydrolysis of SR could produce 250 million gallons of light fuel oil equivalent per year. The hydrolysis process requires a significant amount of electricity, the impacts of which are somewhat offset by the avoided impacts of producing fuels from crude oil resources. Primarily due to high electricity consumption, both the hydrolysis and material recovery scenarios yielded trade-offs (some net benefits and some net higher impacts) compared to landfilling. The results of this end-of-life impact assessment showed that the supplement for cement manufacturing option was environmentally beneficial to the current practice of landfilling and appears better in comparison to the other management methods studied. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Growing awareness of environmental problems during recent years has led to increased demand for environmental information about seafood products. In particular, this report is an attempt to evaluate the manufacturing process of canned-tuna products. Bearing in mind the lifestyles of people in the 21st century, canned products are one of the commonest ways in which seafood products are presented. Spain is the second largest exporter of processed tuna in the world, behind Thailand. The fish and shellfish canning industry is mainly grouped in Galicia where 65% of the total production takes place. To this aim, the method used to study the environmental impact of these products is Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), which follows a product through its entire life cycle. The system under study includes landing at harbour, transport to the factory, processing inside the factory, final product distribution to markets and use in households. The results show that processing accounted for the greatest percentage in all the impact categories, except human toxicity potential. Inside the factory, the production and transportation of tinplate wa
s identified as the most significant contributor and, consequently, improvement actions were proposed and evaluated, such as an increase in the percentage of the recycled tinplate used and the substitution of tinplate by another packaging material. Both proposals would diminish the adverse environmental effects of this process; however they imply a change in the final appearance of the product to be consumed and, therefore, acceptance by consumers is a fundamental factor in their success. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.The transportation sector is responsible for a great percentage of the greenhouse gas emissions as well as the energy consumption in the world. Canada is the second major emitter of carbon dioxide in the world. The need for alternative fuels, other than petroleum, and the need to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gases emissions are the main reasons behind this study. In this study, a full life cycle analysis of an internal combustion engine vehicle (ICEV) and a fuel cell vehicle (FCV) has been carried out. The impact of the material and fuel used in the vehicle on energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions is analyzed for Canada. The data collected from the literature shows that the energy consumption for the production of 1 kg of aluminum is five times higher than that of I kg of steel, although higher aluminum content makes vehicles lightweight and more energy efficient during the vehicle use stage. Greenhouse gas regulated emissions and energy use in transportation (GREET) software has been used to analyze the fuel life cycle. The life cycle of the fuel consists of obtaining the raw material, extracting the fuel from the raw material, transporting, and storing the fuel as well as using the fuel in the vehicle. Four different methods of obtaining hydrogen were analyzed; using coal and nuclear power to produce electricity and extraction of hydrogen through electrolysis and via steam reforming of natural gas in a natural gas plant and in a hydrogen refueling station. It is found that the use of coal to obtain hydrogen generates the highest emissions and consumes the highest energy. Comparing the overall life cycle of an ICEV and a FCV, the total emissions of an FCV are 49% lower than an ICEV and the energy consumption of FCV is 87% lower than that of ICEV. Further, CO2 emissions during the hydrogen fuel production in a central plant can be easily captured and sequestrated. The comparison carried out in this study between FCV and ICEV is extended to the use of recycled material. It is found that using 100% recycled material can reduce energy consumption by 45% and carbon dioxide emissions by 42%, mainly due to the reduced use of electricity during the manufacturing of the material. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.This research compares the use of natural gas, methanol, and hydrogen as transportation fuels. These three fuel chains start with the extraction and processing of natural gas in the Norwegian North Sea and end with final use in Central Europe. The end use is passenger transportation with a sub-compact car that has an internal combustion engine for the natural gas case and a fuel cell for the methanol and hydrogen cases. The life cycle assessment is performed by combining a process based life-cycle inventory with economic input-output data. The analysis shows that the potential cli
mate impacts are lowest for the hydrogen fuel scenario with CO2 deposition. The hydrogen fuel chain scenario has no significant environmental disadvantage compared to the other fuel chains. Detailed analysis shows that the construction of the car contributes significantly to most impact categories. Finally, it is shown how the application of a hybrid inventory model ensures a more complete inventory description compared to standard process-based life-cycle assessment. This is particularly significant for car construction which would have been significantly underestimated in this study using standard process life-cycle assessment alone.At the global, national, and subnational levels, many policies have been created or are in the process of development to deal with greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, particularly CO2, CO2 enhanced oil recovery (EOR) is an option available to governments and industry to help meet emission reduction levels. In addition to increasing the production of oil, the CO2 can be stored in the oil reservoir for a very long period of time. However, CO2 capture and CO2 EOR operation result in significant costs and energy penalties, for example, CO2 capture from a point source, transportation to the site of use, and recycling produced CO2. This article evaluates the life cycle Of CO2 storage from delivery to the oil field through the production, transportation, and refining of the oil and identifies opportunities for optimization. Information from the IEA GHG Weyburn Monitoring and Storage Project is used to provide baseline information for the storage of CO2. The value of this life-cycle study lies in the development of an understanding of the "carbon" economics of the EOR process and the impact on net storage of changes to the value of different components in the chain. These results provide a mechanism whereby environmental consequences can be evaluated within economic decision-making.In a traditional business, although products are supplied to consumers, essentially services or functions are supplied. The supply of services or functions to consumers does not necessarily involve the sale of a product. In such a situation, it is possible to reduce environmental loads by reusing a product without the consumer owning a product. In this study, we developed a life cycle simulation system for establishing a business in which a product is reused. By using this simulation system, environmental and economic evaluation based on material flow and cash flow can be executed. In this paper, a reuse business is defined as a business model in which products are collected and reused, and a sales business is defined as a current business model in which products are sold and not recovered. For supporting an actual business, an evaluation model of mixed business in a transition state from a sales business to a reuse business in which reused products are launched into different market segments is implemented. The usefulness of the developed system is shown by the application example of reusing personal computers. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In a competitive and globalized business environment, the need for the green products becomes stronger. To meet these trends, environmental impact assessment besides delivery, cost and quality of products should be considered as an important factor in new product development stage. In this pa
per, a knowledge-based approximate life cycle assessment system (KALCAS) is developed to assess the environmental impacts of product design alternatives. It aims at improving the environmental efficiency of a product using artificial neural networks, which consist of high-level product attributes and LCA results. The overall framework of a collaborative design environment involving KALCAS is proposed, using engineering solution CO (TM) based on the distributed object-based modeling and evaluation (DOME) system. This framework allows users to access the product data and other related information on a wide variety of application. This paper explores an approximate LCA of product design alternatives represented by solid models in a collaborative design environment. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Although a priori thinking would suggest that a low intensity crop is environmentally favourable, this assumption ignores the effect of reduced productivity which could simply lead to pollution shifting to other places. A life cycle assessment of the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) production system for breadmaking was performed to optimise fertilization. In European temperate climate conditions, fertilizing with nitrogen mostly influences the intensity of field production systems, the quality of agricultural products and the environmental degradation. To assess and compare environmentally relevant impacts of different intensities of production, adequate functional units were developed to take into account the main functions of agricultural activity: production and upkeep of agricultural landscape. The limits of these functional units were identified and the influence of the choice of functional unit was analysed. Assessment of the wheat production system shows that increased fertilization needs a sufficient increase in yield to justify additional emissions and to be environmentally favourable. This requirement relies on the variability among varieties concerning grain yield and quality. To compare different systems of production managed by fertilization intensities, it is necessary to consider both the yield and the quality of the product. A level of 13% protein in dry grain corresponds to a good quality for breadmaking, satisfying bakery requirements. For a consistent comparison, a correction in yield is necessary to obtain an equivalent quality at each level of fertilization intensity. Grain yields at different fertilizer rates that gave 13% protein content in a wheat production system were assessed. This new functional unit identified high fertilization intensity as favourable for most impact categories and demonstrated sufficient yield increases with a change in variety at each level of fertilizer application rate. On the other hand, the impact of wheat production per hectare increases with more intensive fertilizer for all environmental categories except land utilisation. This functional unit helps to explicitly highlight impacts caused by agricultural activity: energy consumption, greenhouse effect, acidification, terrestrial ecotoxicity and human toxicity. The assessment of fertilizers exposed important differences between types and improvement potentials due to heavy metals content, impact on terrestrial ecotoxicity and human toxicity. Optimal combinations of variety, fertilization and land utilisation are discussed to design best p
roduction strategies from an environmental perspective. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Different solid waste management system scenarios were developed and compared for the Municipal Solid Waste Management System of Ankara by using the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. The solid waste management methods considered in the scenarios were collection and transportation of wastes, source reduction, Material Recovery Facility (MRF)/Transfer Stations (TS), incineration, anaerobic digestion and landfilling. The goal of the study was to determine the most environmentally friendly option of MSWM system for Ankara. The functional unit of the study was the amount of solid waste generated in the system area of concern, which are the districts of Ankara. The life cycle inventory analysis was carried out by IWM Model-1. The inputs and outputs of each management stage were defined and the inventory emissions calculated by the model were classified in to impact categories; non-renewable energy sources exhausting potential, final solid waste as hazardous and nonhazardous, global warming, acidification, eutrophication and human toxicity. The impacts were quantified with the weighing factors of each category to develop the environmental profiles of each scenario. In most of the categories, Source Reduction Scenario was found to be the most feasible management method, except the global warming category. The lowest contribution to G-AT was calculated for the anaerobic digestion process. In the interpretation and improvement assessment stage, the results were further evaluated and recommendations were made to improve the current solid waste management system of Ankara. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Intensive agricultural systems are largely responsible for the increase in global reactive nitrogen compounds, which are associated with significant environmental impacts. The nitrogen cycle in agricultural systems is complex and highly variable, which complicates characterization in environmental assessments. Appropriately representing nitrogen inputs into an ecosystem is essential to better understand and predict environmental impacts, such as the extent of seasonally occurring hypoxic zones. Many impacts associated with reactive nitrogen are directly related to annual nitrogen loads, and are not adequately represented by average values that de-emphasize extreme years. To capture the inherent variability in agricultural systems, this paper employs Monte Carlo analysis (MCA) to model major nitrogen exports during crop production, focusing on corn-soybean rotations within the U.S. Corn Belt. This approach yields distributions of possible emission values and is the first step in incorporating variable nutrient fluxes into life cycle assessments (LCA) and environmental impact assessments. Monte Carlo simulations generate distributions of nitrate emissions showing that 80% of values range between 15 and 90 kg NO3- N/ha (mean 38.5 kg NO3- N/ha; median 35.7 kg NO3- N/ha) for corn fields and 5-60 kg NO3- N/ha (mean 20.8 kg NO3- N/ha; median 16.4 kg NO3- N/ha) for soybean fields. Data were also generated for grain and residue nitrogen, N2O, NOx, and NH3.Results indicate model distributions are in agreement with available measured emissions.The objective of this study was to integrate a bioenergetics-based modeling approach into a population s
tage structure to enhance life-cycle toxicity assessments of the effects of waterborne arsenic (As) on the population dynamics of the tilapia Oreochromis mossambicus. The proposed mathematical model links a Leslie matrix population model and a universal ontogenetic growth model embedding the population-level growth rate and stage-specific modes of toxic action. We present data analyses of key parameters and distributions and discuss the processes of data capture and analysis and the impact of acute/chronic As toxicity responses on population-level effects. We employed a three-parameter Hill equation model to describe the relationship between tilapia whole-body burden and mortality in order to estimate the probability of stage-specific vital rate of survival. Using the DEBtox theory, we distinguished three modes of toxic action (MOA): direct effects on growth and indirect effects via maintenance and food consumption on inhibition by arsenic of the growth of a tilapia population. The asymptotic population growth rate decreased from lambda = 1.0027 for the control group to lambda = 0.9935 for tilapia population exposed to 4 mu g mL(-1) As, indicating a potential risk of population intrinsic growth rates for tilapia exposed to higher levels of waterborne As. Our results estimated that an As concentration of 1.02 mu g mL(-1) would cause a 50% reduction in the tilapia population. We found that the interplay between external stressors of waterborne As concentration and internally generated modes of action decreasing feeding in the juvenile stage and increasing the maintenance cost in the adult stage had a pronounced influence on the population stage structure of tilapia. (C) 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.Goal, Scope and Background. CML has contributed to the development of life cycle decision support tools, particularly Substance / Material Flow Analysis (SFA respectively MFA) and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Ever since these tools emerged there have been discussions on how these tools relate to each other, and how they relate to more traditional tools. Remarkably little, however, has been published on these relationships from an empirical side: which combinations of tools have actually been used, and what is the added value of combining tools in practical case studies. In this paper, we report on CML's experience in this field by presenting a number of case studies with their related research questions, for which different tools were deployed. Methods. Three case studies are discussed: 1) Waste water treatment: various options for waste water treatment have been assessed on their eco-efficiency, using SFA to comment on the influence of these options on the flows of certain substances in the water system of. a geographical area and a combination of LCA and life cycle costing (LCC) to assess the life-cycle impacts and costs of these options; 2) Prioritization of environmental policy measures: A methodology has been developed to prioritize environmental policy measures and investments within companies based on both the environmental impacts and the costs of these measures; and 3) Environmental weighting of materials: to add an environmental dimension to standard MFA accounts, materials were weighted with cradle-to-grave impact factors based on LCA data and impact assessment factors. Results and Discussion. For each of these cases, the research quest
ions at stake, the tools applied, the results and the added value, limitations and problems of combining the tools are reported. Conclusions and Perspective. Based on these experiences, it is concluded that using several tools to address a complicated problem is not only a theoretical proposal, but also something that has been applied successfully in a variety of practical situations. Furthermore, using several tools in combination does not necessarily lead to an increased information supply to decision-makers. Instead, it may contribute to the comprehensibility and ease of interpretation of the information that would have been provided by using a single tool. Finally, it is concluded that there is not one generally valid protocol for which tools to use for which question. The essential idea of using a combination of tools is exactly the fact that research questions are not simple by nature and cannot be generalized into protocols.Goal, Scope and Methodology. This paper describes a case study carried out as part of a wider programme to provide Support for environmental decision-making in the highway maintenance programme of a local government body: Surrey County Council (SCC). UK local authorities are required to demonstrate that sustainable development principles are addressed in service provision, by improving environmental, economic or social wellbeing and improving public consultation. A methodological approach was developed to meet these requirements by using life cycle assessment (LCA) and multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) through the process of decision conferencing. Results. In projects requiring strategic decisions, difficulties arise in identifying relevant sustainable development criteria and in evaluating maintenance options against these criteria where the context for decision-making is complex and characterised by uncertainty, where multiple public policy objectives compete and a number of decision-makers and key players are affected by the outcome. Clearly, a structured process is needed to engage such stakeholders in the decision process, utilising quantitative and qualitative information. The approach described proved to be capable of fulfilling these requirements. Conclusions and Recommendations. The approach of combining LCA with MCDA through decision conferencing is capable of further development to support other strategic decision-making activities. However, this illustrative case study has revealed a need for methodological developments in LCA for local, project-level decisions.Goal, Scope and Background. More and more national and regional life cycle assessment (LCA) databases are being, established satisfying the increasing demand on LCA in policy making (e.g. Integrated Product Policy, IPP) and in industry. In order to create harmonised datasets in such unified databases, a common understanding and common rules are required. This paper describes major requirements on the way towards an ideal national background LCA database in terms of co-operation, but also in terms of life cycle inventory analysis (LCI) and impact assessment (LCIA) methodology. Methods. A classification of disputed methodological issues is made according to their consensus potential. In LCI, three main areas of dissent are identified where consensus seems hardly possible, namely system modelling (consequential versus attributional), alloca
tion (including recycling) and reporting (transparency and progressiveness). In LCIA the time aspect is added to the well-known value judgements of the weighting step. Results and Discussions. It is concluded that LCA methodology should rather allow for plurality than to urge harmonisation in any case. A series of questions is proposed to identify the most appropriate content of the LCA background database or the most appropriate LCI dataset. The questions help to identify the best suited approach in modelling the product system in general and multioutput and recycling processes in particular. They additionally help to clarify the position with regard to time preferences in LCIA. Intentionally, the answers to these questions are not attributed to particular goal and scope definitions, although some recommendations and clarifying explanations are provided. Recommendations and Perspective. It is concluded that there is not one single ideal background database content. Value judgements are also present in LCI modelling and require pluralistic solutions; solutions possibly based on the same primary data. It is recommended to focus the methodological discussion on aspects where consensus is within reach, sensible and of added value for all parties.Background Aims and Scope. Access to abiotic resources is vital for modern life styles. Except for ozone depletion, no other environmental threat has a potentially larger impact on our everyday lives than shortage of abiotic resources. In 'Limits to Growth' the Club of Rome identified depletion of ores and minerals as becoming a major problem during the first or second decades of the twenty-first century, and the idea was widely spread. Since then, the attitude to the problem has shifted, and many institutions, such as the European Commission, do not consider the problem acute and does not give it priority in their present action plans. Regardless of when it happens, however, the social consequences of a shortage of abiotic resources will be a major problem and the significance and nature of the problem will depend on what the world looks like then at the time and afterwards. This article discusses existing LCIA methods in relation to their views on the depletion problem. Method. Review of existing LCIA methods in relation to depletion problem definitions. Results and Discussion. Existing methods for characterisation and weighting of abiotic resources appear to be based on four types of problem definitions, although not always explicit: 1) assuming that mining cost will be a limiting factor, 2) assuming that collecting metals or other substances from low-grade sources is mainly an issue of energy, 3) assuming that scarcity is a major threat and 4) assuming that environmental impacts from mining and processing of mineral resources are the main problem. In addition to differences in assumptions about what will be the limiting factor, there are different views on what time scales are of interest and how to integrate the issue in LCA. Conclusion. The main dividing line in views on abiotic resources has to do with time perspective. If only caring for the next hundred years or so, abiotic resources is a manageable problem. In taking an historic perspective with tens of thousands of years, abiotic resources become a major problem. Recommendations and Outlook. Today there seems to be some consensus on focusi
ng on developing characterisation methods based on future increase of impacts from using lower grade resources with consideration of resource functionality. It is essential that the choice of temporal focus is given enough attention.Goal and Scope. This paper aims to develop continental characterization factors for the human toxicity impacts of emissions released to air in different continents and to analyze under which conditions this spatial distinction makes a significant difference compared to generic characterization factors. Methods. The IMPACT 2002 multimedia and multipathways model has been parameterized to define 6 continental box-models, each of them nested in a world box in order to capture impacts of emissions leaving the initial continent. Applying the model to a test set of 31 heterogeneous chemicals emitted to air, intake fractions and human toxicity characterization factors were calculated for each continent and compared. Results and Discussion. For a given chemical, characterization factors can vary of typically a factor 5 to 10 between continents (max 10(2)), mainly as a function of population density for inhalation and as a function of the total agriculture production per km(2) for ingestion. This is significant but still limited compared to the variation between substances, of 10(6) in intake fraction and of 10(12) in cumulative risks. Conclusion. The variation amplitude is limited for persistent chemicals and decreases with the fraction of the chemical advected out of the continent. Moreover, the ranking between continents remains almost the same for all chemicals. Therefore generic characterization factor for air emissions calculated at continental level, such as the one proposed by the common life cycle assessment method, are in most cases suitable for comparative purposes in any other continent. However, continent specific characterization factors are required if one is interested in evaluating absolute values or in comparing impact between scenarios with emissions in very different continents. For this purpose, a simplified but accurate correlation is determined to extrapolate continent specific intake fractions and characterization factors of a wide range of substances for Oceania, Africa, South America, North America and Asia, starting from the results of Europe as a base continent. Recommandation and Perspectives. Further research should focus on linking the different continental boxes to obtain a global spatial model including major climatic phenomenon such as the air transport by jet stream. The level of spatial resolution, however, has to be carefully selected to capture significant differences, but at the same time to avoid unnecessarily requirement efforts for data gathering and calculation capabilities.Goal, Scope and background. Methodologies based on life cycle assessment have been developed to calculate the environmental impact of dwellings. Human health damages due to exposure of occupants to substances and noise emitted by road traffic are not included in these methodologies. In this study, a methodology has been developed to calculate damages to human health of occupants caused by substances and noise emitted by neighbourhood car traffic. The goal of this study is to assess the influence of the location of the dwelling on the health of the occupants, compared to the damage to human health associated
 with the rest of the life cycle of that dwelling. Methods. Fate, exposure and human health effects were addressed in the calculation procedure. The methodology takes into account road traffic noise and four hazardous substances emitted by cars. Chemical fate factors were calculated with an outdoor exposure model for traffic pollutants, air entrance rates and indoor intake fractions. Fate factors for noise were based on noise levels generated by traffic. Effect factors for substances were based on unit risk factors and extrapolated dose-effect relationships. Effect factors for noise were based on linear relationships between noise level changes and health effects, while taking into account threshold values for noise levels for negative impacts. Damage factors were calculated on the basis of disability adjusted life years (DALYs). Human health damage scores for changes in traffic situations have been calculated for differences in three traffic scenarios in residential areas and for the Dutch reference dwellings. Results and Discussion. For the Dutch reference dwelling and the traffic situations considered and taking into account noise, particulate matter (PM10), sulphur dioxide, benzene and benzo[a]pyrene, communication disturbances and sleep disturbances due to noise and health effects of PM10 appear to be dominant in the total damage to human health of occupants caused by neighbourhood car traffic. A sensitivity analysis has shown that a reduction of the car and truck density and of the distance of the facade of the dwellings to the road axis has the largest positive effect on the human health of the occupants, and that a decrease of speed by traffic impediments has only a marginal or even a negative effect. Differences in overall indoor health damage due to different traffic scenarios may be 1.5 to 2 times higher than the total health damage associated with the dwelling life cycle. Conclusion. Within the limitations of this study, damages to human health of occupants due to indoor exposure to road traffic noise and pollutants appear to be in the same order of magnitude when compared with damages associated with the life cycle of dwellings. This emphasizes the importance to include the location of dwellings in the life cycle assessment of the dwelling.Background, Aims and Scope. In the life cycle of a product, emissions take place at many different locations. The location of the source and its surrounding conditions influence the fate of the emitted pollutant and the subsequent exposure it causes. This source of variation is normally neglected in Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA), although it is well known that the impacts predicted by site-generic LCIA in some cases differ significantly from the actual impacts. Environmental impacts of photochemical ozone (ground-level ozone) depend on parameters with a considerable geographical variability (like emission patterns and population densities). A spatially differentiated characterisation model thus seems relevant. Methods and Results. The European RAINS model is applied for calculation of site-dependent characterisation factors for Non-Methane Volatile Organic Compounds (NMVOCs) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) for 41 countries or regions within Europe, and compatible characterisation factors for carbon monoxide (CO) are developed based on expert judgement. These factors are presented for three 
emission years (1990, 1995 and 2010), and they address human health impacts and vegetation impacts in two separate impacts categories, derived from AOT40 and AOT60 values respectively. Compatible site-generic chatacterisation factors for NMVOC, NOx, CO and methane (CH4) are calculated as emission-weighted European averages to be applied on emissions for which the location is unknown. The site-generic and site-dependent characterisation factors are part of the EDIP2003 LCIA methodology. The factors are applied in a specific case study, and it is demonstrated how the inclusion of spatial differentiation may alter the results of the photochemical ozone characterisation of life cycle impact assessment. Discussion and Conclusions. Compared to traditional midpoint characterisation modelling, this novel approach is spatially resolved and comprises a larger part of the cause-effect chain including exposure assessment and exceeding of threshold values. This positions it closer to endpoint modelling and makes the results easier to interpret. In addition, the developed model allows inclusion of the contributions from NO., which are neglected when applying the traditional approaches based on Photochemical Ozone Creation Potentials (POCPs). The variation in site-dependent characterisation factors is far larger than the variation in POCP factors. It thus seems more important to represent the spatially determined variation in exposure than the difference in POCP among the substances.Goal, Scope and Background. The weighting phase in Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is and has always been a controversial issue, partly because this element requires the incorporation of social, political and ethical values. Despite the controversies, weighting is widely used in practise. In this paper we will present an approach for monetisation of environmental impacts which is based on the consistent use of ecotaxes and fees in Sweden as a basis for the economic values. The idea behind this approach is that taxes and fees are expressions of the values society places on resource uses and emissions. An underlying assumption for this is that the decisions taken by policy-makers are reflecting societal values thus reflecting a positive view of representative democracy. Methods. In the method a number of different ecotaxes are used. In many cases they can directly be used as valuation weighting factors, an example is the CO2-tax that can be used as a valuation of CO2-emissions. In some cases, a calculation has to be made in order to derive a weighting factor. An example of this is the tax on nitrogen fertilisers which can be recalculated to an emission of nitrogen which can be used as a weighting factor for nitrogen emissions. The valuation weighting factors can be connected to characterisation methods in the normal LCA practise. We have often used the Ecotax method in parallel to other weighting methods such as the Ecoindicator and EPS methods and the results are compared. Results and Discussion. A new set of weighting factors has been developed which has been used in case studies. It is interesting to note that the Ecotax method is able to identify different environmental problems as the most important ones in different case studies. In some cases, the Ecotax method has identified some interventions as the most important ones which lack weighting factors in other weighting metho
ds. The midpoint-endpoint debate in the LCA literature has often centred on different types of uncertainties. Sometimes it is claimed that an advantage with having an endpoint approach is that the weighting would be easier and less uncertain. Here we are however suggesting a mid-point weighting method that we claim are no less uncertain than other often used weighting methods based on a damage assessment. This paper can therefore be seen as a discussion paper also in the midpoint-endpoint debate. Conclusion and Recommendation. The Ecotax method is ready to use. It should be further updated and developed as taxes are changed and new characterisation methods are developed. The method is not only relevant for LCA but also for other environmental systems analysis. The Ecotax method has also been used as a valuation method for Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA), Life Cycle Costing (LCC) and within the context of a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA).Goal, Scope and Background. Although both cost-benefit analysis (CBA) and life cycle assessment (LCA) have developed from engineering practice, and have the same objective of a holistic ex-ante assessment of human activities, the techniques have until recently developed in relative isolation. This has resulted in a situation where much can be gained from an integration of the strong aspects of each technique. Such integration is now being prompted by the more widespread use of both CBA and LCA on the global arena, where also the issues of social responsibility are now in focus. Increasing availability of data on both biophysical and social impacts now allow the development of a truly holistic, quantitative environmental assessment technique that integrates economic, biophysical and social impact pathways in a structured and consistent way. The concept of impact pathwavs, linking biophysical and economic inventory results via midpoint impact indicators to final damage indicators, is well described in the LCA and CBA literature. Therefore, this paper places specific emphasis on how social aspects can be integrated in LCA. Methods and Results. With a starting point in the conceptual structure and approach of life cycle impact assessment (LCIA), as developed by Helias Udo de Haes and the SETAC/UNEP Life Cycle Initiative, the paper identifies six damage categories under the general heading of human life and well-being. The paper proposes a comprehensive set of indicators, with units of measurement, and a first estimate of global normalisation values, based on incidence or prevalence data from statistical sources and severity scores from health state analogues. Examples are provided of impact chains linking social inventory indicators to impacts on both human well-being and productivity. Recommendation and Perspective. It is suggested that human well-being measured in QALYs (Quality Adjusted Life Years) may provide an attractive single-score alternative to direct monetarisation.Background, Aims and Scope. Social impacts in supply chains and product life cycles are of increasing interest to policy makers and stakeholders. Work is underway to develop social impact indicators for LCA, and to identify the social inventory data that will drive impact assessment for this category. Standard LCA practice collects and aggregates inventory data of the form "units of input or output (elementary flow) per unit of proc
ess output." Measurement of social impacts within workplaces as well as host communities and societies poses new challenges not heretofore faced by LCA database developers. Participatory measurement and auditing of social impacts and of workplace health issues has been shown to provide important benefits relative to external auditor-based methods, including greater likelihood of detecting rights abuses, and stronger support of subsequent action for improvement. However, nonstandardized auditing and metrics poses challenges for the supply chain-wide aggregation and comparison functions of LCA. An analogous challenge arises in the case of resource extractive processes, for which the certification of best management practices provides an important and practical environmental metric. In both the social and resource extraction examples, it may be that attributes of the process are more valuable metrics to measure and incentivize than measured quantities per unit of process output. But how to measure, how to aggregate across life cycles, how to compare product life cycles, and how to incentivize progress as with product policy? Methods. A methodology is presented and demonstrated which estimates the health impacts of economic development stemming from product life cycles. This methodology does not introduce new social indicators; rather, it works with the already common LCA endpoint of human health, and introduces and applies a simplified empirical relationship to characterize the complex pathways from product life cycles' economic activity to health in the aggregate. Results. A simple case study indicates that the health benefits of economic development impacts in product life cycles have the potential to be very significant, possibly even orders of magnitude greater than the health damages from the increased pollution. While the simple macro model points up the dramatic importance of socio-economic pathways to health in product life cycles, it lacks any sensitivity to the vitally important, context-specific attributes of the economic development associated with each process. This result begs the question of how to measure, aggregate, compare, and stimulate society-wide improvement of context-dependent attributes within and across product life cycles in LCA.\ Discussion. Before attempting an answer to the question noted above, a brief reconsideration is offered concerning life cycle assessment. Namely, where does it come from, and what does it bring? Recommendations and Outlook. Finally, the paper concludes by sketching a life cycle approach to promoting localized assessments, to summarizing their results over supply chains and life cycles, and to comparing product life cycles in terms of their results. Often, localized assessments will yield information on the attributes of a process, rather than (or in addition to) the traditional form of life cycle inventory information, which is,,units of something per unit of process output." The methodology can enable product policy users to promote reporting of basic attributes of processes within supply chains, together with local measurement and reporting of context-relevant impacts. For attributes linked to progress on impacts of local and global concern, promotion of these attributes within supply chain processes will bring strong benefits. In addition, over time it may be possible for researchers t
o develop and refine models that estimate, based on cross-sectional and time series analysis of attributes and impacts, relationships between attributes and impacts. In any case, while local impacts across supply chains may not be precisely knowable - let alone controllable - by a microdecision maker at the time of their product-related decision, life cycle attribute analysis may give such decision makers an opportunity to empower progress throughout life cycles and supply chains, which is after all a motivating goal of LCA.Goal, Scope and Background. Life cycle assessment has emerged into a useful tool to assess and potentially reduce the environmental impacts per functional unit. This has contributed to increase eco-efficiency but not necessarily to decrease absolute pollution per capita. The number of functional units is increasing and new functions add to the impacts of consumption. Despite the attempts to use different levels of definitions for the functional unit and applying LCA in the field of lifestyle studies there has been little success to grasp the consumption side of sustainable production and consumption. This contribution aims to tackle the consumption side by at least two extensions: the function of products, services, and activities is assessed with a multi-attribute need function and the propensity to cause both psychological and physical rebound effects are considered in the design phase. Methods. We develop a checklist approach with an evaluation and assessment table. The elements of the checklist are rooted in a number of independent fields of science: needs matrix, happiness enhancing factors, a number of limiting factors that can cause rebound effects, and streamlined LCA. Results and Conclusion. For illustration purposes we comparatively evaluate gardening, having a dog, a weekend house, and starting yoga classes and show that the new analysis framework is able to make transparent and operable the inclusion of a number of additional factors that remained so far implicit or neglected. The additional factors considered can be grouped into factors that may cause rebound effects through psychological or physical mechanisms. The assessment table combines the degree of satisfying needs and enhancing happiness in a psychological rebound score. The physical rebound score considers six factors that may constrain consumption: Costs, time, space, other scarce resources, information, and skills. This allows predicting the potential for rebound effects that would increase total impacts from consumption. In addition, it gives also a handle on how to use the knowledge on rebound effects to not only reduce the impacts of the product or activity at hand but also reducing other consumption that in turn might have adverse impacts. Recommendation and Perspective. Many assumptions in selecting and quantifying the additional factors and the final assessment procedure remain conceptual and therefore provisional. This contribution opens new avenues of investigations that need both further refinements of the theories and empirical evidence. Consumerism and materialism has undermined much of the success stories of improved eco-efficiency and LCA. We suggest using some of the very same psychological and physical mechanisms to foster sustainable consumption.Background. Life cycle assessments have been performed using different methods before
 the name was coined since about 1970 in several countries of North America and Europe. It was the merit of SETAC to start a standardization process which culminated in the LCA-guidelines ('A code of practice') in 1993. It is the aim of this paper to trace back this and further LCA-related achievements by SETAC on the basis of documents and personal memories. It may be subjective in the selection and weighting of some events, but objectivity is strived for with regard to the whole and, in my view, singular development. Results and Discussion. Starting 1990 with two workshops in Smuggler's Notch (Vermont) and Leuven (Belgium), SETAC and SETAC Europe organized several workshops during which important topics (framework, impact assessment, data quality, etc.) were treated and published in the form of reports which are still available. The main contribution by CML and its head, Helias Udo de Haes, was a practical method of impact assessment, transforming the formerly more "technocratic" LCA (energy, resources, waste) into an instrument of environmental assessment of product systems. In addition, important contributions to the allocation problem were made. Starting in 1993, ISO took over the leadership in standardization and SETAC started the famous working groups in North America and Europe, often dealing with the same topics in parallel. Due to the different cultures, the results were frequently complimentary rather than harmonic. The CML-method of LCIA, widely accepted in Europe, had to wait for about 10 years to be accepted at the other side of the Atlantic. It was helpful that SETAC - meanwhile a global organization looked for a partner in order to implement LCA all over the world. This partner was found in the 'United Nations Environmental Programme' (UNEP) and the UNEP/SETAC Life Cycle Initiative was officially launched by Klaus Topfer in Prague in April 2002. SETAC also assumed an important role in communicating LCA via publications: workshop and conference reports, the 'code of practice', working group results and LCA News Letters. The annual meetings offered forums for LCA scientists, practitioners and users, well prepared by the LCA Steering Committee (SETAC Europe) and the LCA Advisory Group (SETAC North America). Recommendations. The main recommendation to SETAC is to adhere to LCA as the main environmental assessment tool for products and to expand it to a true sustainability assessment tool by adding Life Cycle Costing (LCC) and a still to be invented 'Social Life Cycle Assessment'. SETAC is to remain the scientific arm within the UNEP/SETAC LC Initiative, without loosing its identity. Working groups should be global rather than regional in the future, as suggested by the SETAC Europe LCA Steering Committee at the 2004 World Congress in Portland, Oregon.UNEP DTIE, through its Life Cycle Initiative, aims to enhance the skills of small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in developing countries on Life Cycle Management (LCM). This is part of its contribution to the 10-year framework of program on Sustainable Consumption and Production as a follow-up of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (2002). Apart from the potential of improving their environmental performance, life cycle thinking and the use of LCA can be a business opportunity for SMEs. The development of environmental management expertise may help them to position th
emselves as reliable suppliers. The Life Cycle Initiative has promoted and facilitated the establishment of regional life cycle networks, and UNEP has started a training program on LCM targeted at National Cleaner Production Centers (NCPCs) and other national institutes that are able to pass on the information to the target groups. Some multinational companies have started to provide capacity building on life Cycle management for suppliers in developing countries. More companies could use this approach to help developing countries to tackle environmental requirements in the supply chain and thus the private sector may contribute significantly to eco-efficiency, cost savings and finding new markets for sustainable products and services in developing countries. Life cycle thinking applied to basic services such as water, waste and energy could be another way to directly contribute with life cycle management to human development.This paper analyses different alternatives for solid waste management that can be implemented to enable the targets required by the European Landfill and Packaging and Packaging Waste Directives to be achieved in the Valencian Community, on the east coast of Spain. The methodology applied to evaluate the environmental performance of each alternative is Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The analysis has been performed at two levels; first, the emissions accounted for in the inventory stage have been arranged into impact categories to obtain an indicator for each category; and secondly, the weighting of environmental data to a single unit has been applied. Despite quantitative differences between the results obtained with four alternative impact assessment methods, the same preference ranking has been established: scenarios with energy recovery (1v and 2v) achieve major improvements compared to baseline, with scenario I v being better than 2v for all impact assessment methods except for the EPS'00 method, which obtains better results for scenario 2v. Sensitivity analysis has been used to test some of the assumptions used in the initial life cycle inventory model but none have a significant effect on the overall results. As a result, the best alternative to the existing waste management system can be identified. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Solar energy itself is generally considered as environmentally friendly, nevertheless it is still important to take into consideration the environmental impacts caused by production of thousands of solar thermal systems. In this work the standard LCA methodology has been extended to analyse the total environmental impacts of a new more efficient solar thermal system SOLARSTORE during its whole life cycle. This system is being developed by a 5th Framework EC project. The LCA results show that to produce 1 GJ energy with SOLARSTORE system will result in global warming potential of 6.3-10 kg CO2, acidification potential of 46.6-70 g SO2, eutrophication of 2.1-3.1 g phosphate and photochemical oxidant of 0.99-1.5 g C2H4. The raw material acquisition and components manufacturing processes contribute 99% to the total environmental impacts. In comparison with traditional heating systems, SOLARSTORE system provides a considerably better solution for reduction of negative environmental impacts by using solar energy more efficiently. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Modellin
g of environmental impacts from the application of treated organic Municipal solid waste (MSW) in agriculture differs widely between different models for environmental assessment of waste systems. In this comparative Study five models were examined concerning quantification and impact assessment of environmental effects from land application of treated organic MSW: DST (Decision Support Tool, USA), IWM (Integrated Waste Management, UK), THE IFEU PROJECT (Germany), ORWARE (ORganic WAste REsearch, Sweden) and EASEWASTE (Environmental Assessment of Solid Waste Systems and Technologies, Denmark). DST and IWM are life cycle inventory (LCI) models, thus not performing actual impact assessment. The DST model includes only one water emission (biological oxygen demand) from compost leaching in the results and IWM considers only air emissions from avoided production of commercial fertilizers. THE IFEU PROJECT, ORWARE and EASEWASTE are life cycle assessment (LCA) models containing more detailed land application modules. A case Study estimating the environmental impacts from land application of 1 ton of composted Source sorted organic household waste was performed to compare the results from the different models and investigate the origin of any difference in type or magnitude of the results. The contributions from the LCI models were limited and did not depend on waste composition or local agricultural conditions. The three LCA models use the same overall approach for quantifying the impacts of the system. However, due to slightly different assumptions, quantification methods and environmental impact assessment, the obtained results varied clearly between the models. Furthermore, local conditions (e.g. soil type, farm type, climate and legal regulation) and waste composition strongly influenced the results of the environmental assessment.A model capable of quantifying the potential environmental impacts of agricultural application of composted or anaerobically digested source-separated organic municipal solid waste (MSW) is presented. In addition to the direct impacts, the model accounts for savings by avoiding the production and use of commercial fertilizers. The model is part of a larger model, Environmental Assessment of Solid Waste Systems and Technology (EASEWASTE), developed as a decision-support model, focusing On assessment of alternative waste management options. The environmental impacts of the land application of processed organic waste are quantified by emission coefficients referring to the composition of the processed waste and related to specific crop rotation as well as soil type. The model contains several default parameters based on literature data, field experiments and modelling by the agro-ecosystem model, Daisy. All data can be modified by the user allowing application of the model to other situations. A case study including four scenarios was performed to illustrate the Use of the model. One tonne of nitrogen in composted and anaerobically digested MSW was applied as fertilizer to loamy and sandy soil at a plant farm in western Denmark. Application of the processed organic waste mainly affected the environmental impact categories global warming (0.4-0.7 PE), acidification (-0.06 (saving)-1.6 PE), nutrient enrichment (-1.0 (saving)-3.1 PE), and toxicity. The main contributors to these categories were nitrous oxide formation (gl
obal warming), ammonia volatilization (acidification and nutrient enrichment), nitrate losses (nutrient enrichment and groundwater contamination), and heavy metal input to Soil (toxicity potentials). The local agricultural conditions as well as the composition of the processed MSW showed large influence on the environmental impacts. A range of benefits, mainly related to improved soil quality from long-term application of the processed organic waste, could not be generally quantified with respect to the chosen life cycle assessment impact categories and were therefore not included in the model. These effects should be considered in conjunction with the results of the life cycle assessment.Environmental life cycle assessment (LCA) is an environmental management tool, which is increasingly used for decision-support in the South African manufacturing industry, e. g. for cleaner production purposes. The life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) phase of LCAs evaluates the potential environmental impact profiles of industrial activities throughout the life cycles of products and processes. The LCIA procedure is dependent on a comprehensive life cycle inventory (LCI) of the evaluated life cycle system. Water usage is included in LCIs, and is incorporated in LCIA procedures as direct extraction from available resources. However, the environmental burdens associated with water supply extend beyond extraction and include non-renewable energy use, materials use, land use, and pollution of air, soil and water resources. A LCA study was subsequently undertaken to identify key environmental aspects that should be considered where water is used in the manufacturing sector of South Africa, and to identify possible shortcomings in the LCA tool. It is concluded that the extraction of the required water from nature to supply potable water is in fact the most important consideration, and water-losses in the supply system must receive attention, especially in the municipal-controlled part. Water quality impacts are also important, although through supporting processes, and specifically electricity generation. The boosting requirements attribute most to the electricity dependency of the studied life cycle system. However, a number of data gaps were identified and recommendations are made to improve such future LCA studies in South Africa.One of the most commonly used elements in ephemeral architecture is a particleboard panel. These types of wood products are produced from wood wastes and they are used in temporary constructions such as trade fairs. Once the event is over, they are usually disposed into landfills. This paper intends to assess the environmental effects related to the use of these wood wastes in the end-of-life stage. The Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of two scenarios was performed, considering the recycling of wood waste for particleboard manufacture and energy generation from non-renewable resources (Scenario 1) versus the production of energy from the combustion of wood waste and particleboard manufacture with conventional wooden resources (Scenario 2). A sensitive analysis was carried out taking into account the influence of the percentage of recycled material and the emissions data from wood combustion. According to Ecoindicator 99 methodology, Damage to Human Health and Ecosystem Quality are more significant in Scenario 2 whereas Scenario I prese
nts the largest contribution to Damage to Resources. Between the two proposed alternatives, the recycling of wood waste for particleboard manufacture seems to be more favorable under an environmental perspective. (C) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.A novel post-synthesis analysis tool is presented which evaluates quality of the organic preparation based on yield, cost, safety, conditions and ease of workup/purification. The proposed approach is based on assigning a range of penalty points to these parameters. This semi-quantitative analysis can easily be modified by other synthetic chemists who may feel that some parameters should be assigned different relative penalty points. It is a powerful tool to compare several preparations of the same product based on safety, economical and ecological features.The sustainable development and consumption need more efficient use of natural resources. As a consequence, the use of industrial solvents demands their recovery instead of end-of-pipe treatment. It is not always clear, however, which treatment alternative should be applied. Based on an industrial case study, the environmental and economic evaluation and comparison of the treatment alternatives of a non-ideal solvent mixture containing azeotropes is investigated for determining the preferable option. For the recovery of the industrial solvent mixture, two different separation alternatives are evaluated: a less effective alternative and a novel design based on hybrid separation tools. An end-of-pipe treatment alternative, incineration, is also considered and the split of the solvent mixtures between recovery and incineration is investigated. The environmental evaluation of the alternatives is carried out using 'Eco-indicator 99 life-cycle impact assessment methodology'. Economic investigation is also accomplished. The economic features clearly favour the total recovery, however, the environmental evaluation detects that if a recovery process of low efficiency is applied, its environmental burden can be similar or even higher than that of the incineration. This motivates engineers to design more effective recovery processes and reconsider the evaluation of process alternatives at environmental decision making. (C) Central European Science Journals Warsaw and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg. All rights reserved.A life cycle assessment of hydrogen and gasoline vehicles, including fuel production and utilization in vehicles powered by fuel cells and internal combustion engines, is conducted to evaluate and compare their efficiencies and environmental impacts. Fossil fuel and renewable technologies are investigated, and the assessment is divided into various stages. Energy efficiencies and greenhouse gas emissions are evaluated in each step for crude oil and natural gas pipeline transportation, crude oil distillation and natural gas reformation, wind and solar electricity generation, hydrogen production through water electrolysis, and gasoline and hydrogen distribution and utilization. The results indicate that, when taking into account fossil fuel energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, the efficiency of a fuel cell vehicle employing hydrogen from natural gas should be at least 25-30% higher than a gasoline one to be competitive. Wind electricity generation to produce hydrogen via electrolysis, and its application in a PEMFC vehi
cle, has the lowest greenhouse gas emissions and fossil fuel energy consumption. However, the economic attractiveness of renewable wind technology is shown to depend significantly on the ratio in costs between hydrogen and natural gas; when this ratio is 2:1, a financial investment to produce hydrogen via natural gas is about five times more profitable than to do so via wind energy. (c) 2005 International Association for Hydrogen Energy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Background, Aims and Scope. The development of the international standards for life cycle assessment (ISO 14040:1997, ISO 14041:1999, ISO 14042:2000, ISO 14043:2000) was an important step to consolidate procedures and methods of LCA. Their contribution to the general acceptance of LCA by all stakeholders and by the international community was crucial. Currently, the process of the revision of this first generation of LCA standards is close to completion. The paper explains the Outline as well as formal and technical changes of the coming new international standards of LCA, i.e. the new ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Methods. The paper refers to life cycle assessment based on the international standards for LCA (ISO 14040:1997, ISO 14041:1999, ISO 14042:2000, ISO 14043:2000). The content relates to the Final Draft International Standard (FDIS) versions of the new ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. Results and Discussion. With the publication of the two new standards, ISO 14040 and ISO 14044, the existing four standards ISO 14040:1997, ISO 14041:1999, ISO 14042:2000 and ISO 14043:2000 are technically revised, cancelled and replaced. According to the scope of the revision, the core part of the technical contents remains unchanged. Improved readability and the removal of errors and inconsistencies was the focus of the revision. However, despite the fact that the main technical content was confirmed to be still valid, some relevant formal and technical changes were made. On the technical side these include e.g. the addition of principles for LCA, the addition of an annex about applications, the addition of several definitions (e.g. product, process, etc.), clarifications concerning LCA intended to be used in comparative assertions intended to be disclosed to the public, clarifications concerning the critical review panel, clarifications concerning system boundary, etc. On the formal side, changes include the reduced number of standards, a reduced number of annexes, a reduced number of pages that contain requirements, alignment of definitions and clarification of compliance with the standards. Conclusion. The two new standards, ISO 14040 and ISO 14044, reconfirm the validity of the main technical content of the previous standards. Errors and inconsistencies were removed and the readability was improved. The added technical content is in line with the previous requirements and serves mainly as a clarification of the technical content. The unanimous vote on the Draft International Standard versions proved that this was achieved on the basis of the broadest possible international consensus. Recommendation and Outlook. Currently the national member bodies undertake the final voting on the FDIS-versions of the standards. Based on the voting results at the previous stages of the documents, a positive result is expected. The publication of the new international standards for life cycle a
ssessment (ISO 14040 and ISO 14044) is expected around mid-2006. For the sake of the international and stakeholder acceptance of LCA, it is recommended that the new standards serve as core reference documents for the users and practitioners of LCA.Goal, Scope and Background. To enhance the use of life cycle assessment (LCA) as a tool in business decision-making, a methodology for Social life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) is being developed. Social LCA aims at facilitating companies to conduct business in a socially responsible manner by providing information about the potential social impacts on people caused by the activities in the life cycle of their product. The development of the methodology has been guided by a business perspective accepting that companies, on the one hand, have responsibility for the people affected by their business activities, but, on the other hand, must also be able to compete and make profit in order to survive in the marketplace. Methods. A combined, bottom-up and top-down approach has been taken in the development of the Social LCIA. Universal consensus documents regarding social issues as well as consideration for the specific business context of companies has guided the determination of damage categories, impact categories and category indicators. Results, Discussion, and Conclusion. The main results are the following: (1) Impacts on people are naturally related to the conduct of the companies engaged in the life cycle rather than to the individual industrial processes, as is the case in Environmental LCA. Inventory analysis is therefore focused on the conduct of the companies engaged in the life cycle. A consequence of this view is that a key must be determined for relating the social profiles of the companies along the life cycle to the product. This need is not present in Environmental LCA, where we base the connection on the physical link which exists between process and product. (2) Boundaries of the product system are determined with respect to the influence that the product manufacturer exerts over the activities in the product chain. (3) A two-layer Social LCA method with an optional and an obligatory set of impact categories is suggested to ensure both societal and company relevance of the method. The obligatory set of impact categories encompasses the minimum expectations to a company conducting responsible business. (4) A new area of protection, Human dignity and Well-being, is defined and used to guide the modelling of impact chains. (5) The Universal Declaration of Human Rights serves as normative basis for Social LCA, together with local or Country norms based on socio-economic development goals of individual countries. The International Labour Organisation's Conventions and Recommendations, and the Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, support development of the impact pathway top-down, starting from & normative basis. (6) The obligatory part of Social LCA addresses the main stakeholder groups, employees, local community and society. Recommendations and Outlook. Social LCA is still in its infancy and a number of further research tasks within this new area are identified.Goal, Scope and Background. This paper presents a new LCA method of technology evolution (TE-LCA), and its application to the production of ammonia, the second largest c
hemical product in the world, over the last fifty years. The TE-LCA of a chemical process is the procedure in which historical information on a process, mainly the evolution of technical parameters, is translated by simulation to mass and energy balances as a function of time. These mass and energy balances are then transformed into environmental impact indicators using common LCA approaches. Finally, the evolution of environmental impact resulting from the investigated process can be related to its technical and other, i.e. legislative, developments. Methods. The technological evolution of the production of ammonia was compiled according to three basic Sources of information: patents, publications and industry data. From these sources in a first step, the major technological advances of the process were identified as a function of time delivering different process variants that were modelled using the simulation software Aspen Plus (R). In a second step, the evolution of environmental regulations is studied. For those energy related emissions that were regulated, e.g. SOx and NOx, it was assumed that threshold values defined in legislation were realized immediately. The aggregation of both steps allows the calculation of the emissions resulting from the production (cradle to gate view) of the investigated chemical as a function of time. Results and Discussion. The application of the TE-LCA to the production of ammonia revealed when and to which extent technological and legislative developments resulted in the reduction of energy related emissions in the production of this chemical compound. Overall, the reduction of emissions from ammonia production was highly influenced by the technological development and only to a lower extent by environmental regulations. Conclusion. The results obtained from the TE-LCA method is useful to reveal how the environmental performance of a process developed in the past and to identify the reasons for this development. The investigated case Study of ammonia production shows that investment in technological development also paid off in terms of being ahead of tightened environmental legislation that might bear potential cost consequences such as carbon dioxide tax. Outlook. The presented method can be easily extended by including an economic analysis, which provides additional information on why certain technological developments were enforced and which the economic consequences of changes in environmental legislation were. The new methodology has to be applied to additional case studies, i.e. to other chemical sectors than basic chemicals and to other branches than chemicals. In other chemical sectors, toxic emissions from the production process might have to be considered and trade-offs between these and the overall energy consumption might result.Goal, Scope and Background. Wood has many applications and it is often in competition with other materials. Chipboard is the most common item of wood-based materials and it has attained the highest economical development in recent years. Relevant up-to-date environmental data are needed to allow the environmental comparison of wood with other materials. There are several examples of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) evaluations of some wood products and forest-technology systems, but no comprehensive Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) data for particleboard manufacture is ava
ilable in the literature. The main focus of this study is to generate a comprehensive LCI database for the manufacture of resin-bonded wood particleboards. Methods. In this work, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standards and Ecoindicator 99 methodology were considered to quantify the potential environmental impact associated to the system under study. A Spanish factory considered representative of the 'state of art' was studied in detail. The system boundaries included all the activities taking place inside the factory as well as the activities associated with the production of the main chemicals used in the process, energy inputs and transport. All the data related to the inputs and outputs of the process were obtained by on-site measurements. Results and Discussion. LCI methodology was used for the quantification of the impacts of the particleboard manufacture. The inventory data of the three defined subsystems are described: Wood preparation: a comprehensive inventory of data including storage, debarking, particle production, storage and measurement of particles, drying and combustion of the bark for energy purposes. Board shaping: data related to particle classification, resin mixing, mattress formation and the pressing stage. Board finishing: cooling data, finishing, storage and distribution of the final product. The system was characterised with Ecoindicator 99 methodology (hierarchic version) in order to identify the 'hot spots'. Damage to Human Health was mainly produced by the subsystem of Board finishing. The subsystem of Board shaping was the most significant contributor to damage to the Ecosystem Quality and Resources. Conclusions. With the final aim of creating a database to identify and characterise the manufacture of particleboard, special attention was paid to the inventory analysis stage of the particleboard industry. A multicriteria approach was applied in order to define the most adequate use of wood wastes. Environmental, economic and social considerations strengthen the hypothesis that the use of forest residues in particleboard manufacture is more sustainable than their use as fuel. Recommendations and Outlook. In this work, particleboard was the product analysed, as it is one of the most common wood-based materials. Future work will focus on the study of another key wood board: Medium Density Fibreboard (MDF). Moreover, factors with strong geographical dependence, such as the electricity profile and final transport of the product, will be analysed. in addition, the definition of widespread functional unit to study the use of wood wastes at the end-of-life stage may be another issue Of Outstanding interest.Background, Aims and Scope. The problem of the evaluation of practitioner's belief and belief-related uncertainties on LCA results obtained from different methodological choices has been addressed so far by scenario modeling, Cultural Theory perspectives and probabilistic simulation. The direct evaluation of belief and related uncertainties could be of interest, e.g. when the information available (resulting from classical uncertainty analysis or the application of the precautionary principle) do not allow one to choose between methodological alternatives leading to different LCA results and conclusions. The difficulty of modeling belief arises from the additive nature of classical measures, e.
g. probabilities. Since the 1960s, non-additive measures (e.g. possibilities) have been developed and applied to model belief in real world problems. The aim of this paper is to discuss the application of possibility measures in LCA for uncertainty analysis in complement to classical approaches. Methods. The nature and the meaning of possibilities are briefly introduced by comparison with probabilities (subjective or not) in order to enlighten strengths, drawbacks and complementarities. A tentative possibilistic approach based on the evaluation of a posteriori possibilities of final LCA results depending on a priori possibilities of the methodological choices behind the calculations is described, also by means of an application example. Results and Outlook. A new approach for the modeling of practitioner's belief and belief-related uncertainties in complement of classical methods of uncertainty analysis has been proposed for discussion. Uncertainty can be characterized by confidence intervals and indexes that could help practitioners in making methodological choices and could improve the interpretation and reliability of LCA results, still increasing its sophistication.Goal and Scope. The environmental performance of two ethanol fuel applications (E10 and E85) is compared (E10 fuel: a mixture of 10% ethanol and 90% gasoline by volume, and E85 fuel: a mixture of 85% ethanol and 15% gasoline by volume). Methods. Two types Of functional units are considered here: An ethanol production-oriented perspective and a traveling distance-oriented perspective. The ethanol production-oriented functional unit perspective reflects the fact that the ethanol fuel Supply (arable land or quantity of biomass used ill ethanol fuel) is constrained, while the traveling distance-oriented functional unit implies that the ethanol fuel supply is unlimited. Results and Discussion. In the ethanol production-oriented functional unit perspective, the E10 fuel application offers better environmental performance than the E85 fuel application in terms of natural resources used, nonrenewable energy and global warming. However, in the calculations based oil the traveling distance perspective, the E85 fuel application provides less environmental impacts in crude oil consumption, nonrenewable energy and global warming than the E10 fuel application. Conclusions and Outlook. The choice of functional units significantly affects the final results. Thus the functional unit ill a descriptive LCA should reflect as nearly as possible the actual situation associated with a product system. Considering the current situation of constrained ethanol fuel supply, the E10 fuel application offers better environmental performance in natural resources used, nonrenewable energy and global warming unless the fuel economy of all E85 fueled vehicle is close to that of an E10 fueled vehicle.Background, Aims and Scope. Telecommunication and information technology, dramatically emerged during the last decade, has generated environmental problems by accelerating mass production, mass consumption, and mass disposal of personal computers (PCs) in Korea. In addition, it has led the Korean new economy. The Korean government has encouraged researchers and industry to study the environmental impact, adequate disposal treatment, and the reasonable recycling rate of an end-of-life personal computer. The main p
urpose of this research is to investigate the life cycle environmental impact of PCs and to determine the desirable or feasible recycle rate of in end-of-life PC. An LCA on a PC was performed based on different recycling scenario. Target audiences are new product developers, designers, product recovery managers and environmental policy makers who are interested in the environmental impact of PCs and recycling of end-of-life products. Methods. A target product is a Pentium W personal computer made in Korea in 2001, excluding the monitor and peripheral equipment. The procedure of the LCA followed the ISO14040 series. System boundary includes the entire life cycle of the product, including pre-manufacturing (the electrical parts and components manufacturing), manufacturing, transportation, use, and disposal. The LCI and impact assessment database for a PC was constructed using SIMAPRO version 4.0 software and LCI information was compiled by site-specific data and the Korean national database. The LCA was performed on different recycling scenarios: one being that of the current recycling rate of 46%, and the other being the ideal condition of a 100% recycling rate. Results and Discussion. Abiotic depletion, global warming, ecotoxicity, human toxicity, acidification, ozone layer depletion, photo-oxidant formation, and eutrophication are adopted as the impact categories. The pre-manufacturing stage was a significant stage for all of the environmental parameters, besides human toxicity potential. PC manufacturing consists of rather simple processes such as assembly and packaging. For improving the environmental performance of PCs, environmental management approaches of design for the environment and green procurement are recommended. The use stage had a significant potential due to the electricity consumption produced by burning fossil fuel. The disposal stage's contribution to environmental impact was largest in human toxicity, and second largest in ozone layer depletion potential. The PC recycling was shown to inhibit all environmental impacts with the exception of the ozone depletion and ecotoxicity potential. The increase of light oil, nitric acid, sulfuric acid, and deoxidating agent consumption during the recycling process contributes to the environmental impact of ozone and ecotoxicity parameters. Current recovery and recycling technologies should be taken into account for enhancing the benefits of recycling. Anyway, the effectiveness of recycling was highlighted by this study. PC recycling reduces the total environmental impact of the product. The PC recycling is recommended to be raised up to at least 63% in order to reduce the environmental burdens of a PC in other life cycle stages. Conclusion and Recommendation. This study implies that design for the environment (DfE) in the product design stage and green procurement are recommended for improving the entire environmental performance of electronic equipment such as PCs. The recycling of waste PCs clearly reduces the environmental burden. There are, however, trade-offs among environmental parameters according to the PC recycling rate. Current recycling methods are not effective in reducing ozone depletion and ecotoxicity environmental impact. The product recovery is another key for efficient recycling. Efficient reverse logistics to collect and transport end-of-life PCs should be taken
 into account to enhance recycling effects. There were several electrical parts not included in this assessment, due to the unavailability of adequate data. Further studies with more detail and reliable inventories for electrical parts and sub-components are recommended. Furthermore, costs of recycling should also be treated in further research.Aim, Scope and Background. The environmental and energy parameters of Photovoltaic systems play a very important role when compared to conventional power systems. In the present paper, a typical PV-system is analyzed to its elements and in assessment of the material and energy requirements during tie production procedures is attempted. An LCA is being performed on the system of production of photovoltaics. Main Features. An energy analysis is extended to the production of the primary energy carriers. This allows having a complete picture of the life cycle of all the PV-components described in the present study. Four different scenarios are examined in detail providing every possible aspect of scientific interest involving multicrystalline PV systems. Methods and Tools. In order to obtain concrete results from this study, the specific working tools used are: the energy payback time (EPBT) and the electricity production efficiency (EPE). A process that relates inventory information with relevant concerns about natural resource usage is attempted. Conlusions. As a final stage of this work, it is assumed that photovoltaics are used in a small island economy, with the hypothesis of a total replacement of the existing conventional power diesel unit. A comparison between the two power systems shows the benefits of an extended use of PV-systems. EPBT and EPE results indicate PV-systems' great potential in producing electricity using limited resources during the several steps of their life cycle. Recommendation. Technological improvements need to be done in the manufacture of BOS-components which consume during their life cycle almost equal amounts of energy as the photovoltaic modules.Organisations today face increasing environmental constraints, e.g. in the form of legal and customer requirements; the defence sector is no exception. There is a need to evaluate and limit environmental effects of defence activities and materiel. In this study we used quantitative Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and a method for simplified LCA (the Material, Energy, Chemicals and Others (MECO) method) to assess the environmental impacts of a grenade. The aims of the study are to identify aspects in the grenade's life-cycle that have the largest environmental impact, suggest improvement possibilities, make a comparison between different approaches for waste management of munitions, and to perform a demonstrative case for the application of LCA to munitions. Significant environmental aspects of the grenade's life-cycle include use of metals, use of fossil fuels, and detonation outdoors. The study shows that an LCA can be used to analyse environmental impacts from munitions. The simplified LCA gave information that is complementary to the quantitative LCA. (c) 2005 Society of Chemical IndustryInfluence of soil properties and aging on Cu partitioning and toxicity was assessed on 10 artificial soils constituted using a statistical design considering pH (5.5 and 7.5), organic matter (1-30% [w/w]), and clay content (5-35% [w/w]). Total
 Cu as well as water-, CaCl2-, and diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA)-extracted Cu fractions were determined for each soil mixture. Ecotoxic effect was assessed by determining growth inhibition of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and compost worm (Eisenia fetida) mortality. Analyses were repeated after a 16-wk aging period of the soils at pH 7.5 (8 x 2-wk wetting and drying cycle). Results indicated that pH was the main factor controlling Cu partitioning, ahead of organic matter and clay content. Calcium chloride (0.5 M)-extracted Cu fractions showed the best correlation with toxic responses (r = 0.55-0.66; p < 0.05), while total and DTPA-extracted Cu concentrations could not explain differences in toxicity. Direct regressions between toxicity and soil properties (pH, organic matter, and clay content) provided better explanation of variance: r(2) = 0.50 (p = 0.00006) for compost worm mortality, r(2) = 0.77 (p < 0.00001) for barley shoot inhibition, and r(2) = 0.92 (p < 0.00001) for barley root inhibition. Copper toxicity was mainly influenced by pH and, to a lesser extent, by organic matter and clay content. Aging in organic soils revealed a slight reduction in ecotoxicity while an increase was observed in soils with low organic matter content. Further investigation using longer aging periods would be necessary to assess the significance of this observation.Office buildings are thought to be significant sources of energy use and emissions in industrialized countries, but quantitative assessments of all of the phases of the service life of office buildings are still quite rare. In order to enable environmentally conscious design and management, this paper presents life-cycle assessments of newly constructed European and U.S. office buildings from materials production through construction, use, and maintenance to end-of-life treatment. The significant environmental aspects indicate the dominance of the use phase in the quantified environmental categories, but draw attention to the importance of embedded materials and expected maintenance investments throughout the assumed 50-year service life, especially for particulate matter emissions. The relevance of the materials, construction, maintenance, and end-of-life phases relative to the use of buildings is expected to increase considerably as functional obsolescence of office buildings becomes more rapid, and complete reconstruction and reconfiguration become more frequent. By quantifying the energy use and environmental emissions of each life-cycle phase in more detail, the elements that cause significant emissions can be identified and targeted for improvement.This paper describes the application of life cycle assessment for evaluating various waste management options in Singapore, a small-island city state. The impact assessment method by SimaPro is carried out for comparing the potential environmental impacts of waste treatment options including landfilling, incineration, recycling, and composting. The inventory data include gases and leachate from landfills, air emissions and energy recovery from incinerators, energy (and emission) savings from recycling, composting gases, and transport pollution. The impact assessment results for climate change, acidification, and ecotoxicity show that the incineration of materials imposes considerable harm to both human health and the environment, e
specially for the burning of plastics, paper/cardboard, and ferrous metals. The results also show that, although some amount of energy can be derived from the incineration of wastes, these benefits are outweighed by the air pollution (heavy metals and dioxins/furans) that incinerators produce. For Singapore, landfill gases and leachate generate minimal environmental damage because of the nation's policy to landfill only 10% of the total disposed wastes. Land transportation and separation of waste materials also pose minimal environmental damage. However, sea transportation to the landfill could contribute significantly to acidification because of the emissions of sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides from barges. The composting of horticultural wastes hardly imposes any environmental damage. Out of all the waste strategies, the recycling of wastes offers the best solution for environmental protection and improved human health for the nation. Significant emission savings can be realized through recycling.This study provides an empirical assessment of energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emmissions associated with high and low residential development. Three major elements of urban development are considered: construction materials for infrastructure (including residential dwellings, utilities, and roads), building operations, and transportation (private automobiles and public transit). Two case studies from the City of Toronto are analyzed. An economic input-output life-cycle assessment (EIO-LCA) model is applied to estimate the energy use and GHG emissions associated with the manufacture of construction materials for infrastructure. Operational requirements for dwellings and transportation are estimated using nationally and/or regionally averaged data. The results indicate that the most targeted measures to reduce GHG emissions in an urban development context should be aimed at transportation emissions, while the most targeted measures to reduce energy usage should focus on building operations. The results also show that low-density suburban development is more energy and GHG intensive (by a factor of 2.0-2.5) than high-density urban core development on a per capita basis. When the functional unit is changed to a per unit of living space basis the factor decreases to 1.0-1.5, illustrating that the choice of functional unit is highly relevant to a full understanding of urban density effects.The overall goal of this study was to evaluate the environmental performance of the process currently used to package and palletize ceramic floor and wall tiles, and to propose and analyse improvements from an environmental point of view. After developing a life cycle inventory of the primary and tertiary packaging, the life cycle assessment was applied according to mandatory and optional elements of ISO 14042. The results are presented in three parts: the first quantifies the environmental behaviour of the current packaging system, the second examines strategies focused on minimizing the environmental burdens of such critical elements, and the third quantifies the environmental improvements, compared with the initial situation, that are obtained with the application of each improvement. The simultaneous incorporation of all the proposed improvements into the packaging system can reduce impact within the 18-45% range, depending on the impact method that is ap
plied. Copyright (C) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.This study is a life-cycle analysis of the balance of system (BOS) components of the 3.5 MWP multi-crystalline PV installation at Tucson Electric Power's (TEP) Springerville, AZ field PV plant. TEP instituted all innovative PV installation program guided by design optimization and cost minimization. The advanced design of the PV structure incorporated the weight of the PV modules as all element of support design, thereby eliminating the need for concrete foundations. The estimate of the life-cycle energy requirements embodied in the BOS is 542 MJ/m(2), a 71% reduction front those of all older central plant; the corresponding life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions are 29 kg CO2 eq./m(2). From field measurements, the energy payback time (EPT) of the BOS is 0.21 years for the actual location of this plant, and 0.37 years for average US insolation/temperature conditions. This is a great improvement from the EPT of about 1.3 years, estimated for all older central plant. The total cost of the balance of system components was $940 US per kW(P) of installed PV, all other milestone in improvement. These results were verified with data from different databases and further tested with sensitivity- and data-uncertainty analyses. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Many companies are beginning to change the way they develop products due to increasing awareness of sustainable development. Designers, who play a key role in product development, are being asked to incorporate environmental criteria into the design process. The need for analytically based conceptual design methods for integrated life-cycle assessment (LCA) has motivated the development of an approximate life-cycle assessment concept based upon learning algorithms. Although preliminary tests on general approximate models showed promise, it was observed that grouping products to create specialized learning surrogate LCA models for different classes of products might further improve results. This paper presents work to develop an automated classification system to support the specialization of surrogate LCA models for different groups of products. Hierarchical clustering is used to guide a systematic identification of product groups based upon environmental categories. These groupings are then used to create automated classification schemes using the C4.5 decision tree algorithm. Although further data are needed to induce good generalization performance, resulting product classification systems are considered to be a viable approach to support specialized learning surrogate LCA models for different classes of products. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.The paper compares selected life cycle-based (well-to-wheel) studies of fuel/propulsion alternatives for light-duty vehicles with a focus on lignocellulose-derived fuels (hydrogen, Fischer Tropsch liquids, and ethanol). Inter- and intra-study comparisons are completed and analyses are conducted to account for the variability due to differing assumptions surrounding energy accounting and vehicle characteristics. For lignocellulose-derived fuels used in relevant propulsion systems, life cycle greenhouse gas emissions are on average 96% lower for hydrogen, 91% lower for Fischer Tropsch liquids and 86% lower for ethanol as compared to the reference gasoline pathway. Key issues found to im
pact study results are assumptions regarding feedstock characteristics, vehicle propulsion system efficiency, land use changes and associated carbon sequestration, nitrous oxide emissions due to agricultural practices, co-product allocation, energy accounting practices, and expected progress on commercial-scale fuel production processes and associated infrastructure. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Saving of bath chemicals and freshwater Consumed within metal finishing systems and the reduction of wastewater produced can be important steps towards more sustainable processes. Furthermore, the application of regenerators is usually energy intensive. Accordingly, in an "eco-eco" (ECO) trade-off, importance should be given to both economic benefits as well as to several ecological measures. The approach presented here is the synthesis of in ECO-optimal reuse and recovery network (RRN) based on a simultaneous multi-objective system optimization model with dynamically chosen environmental objective. It includes a conventional cost objective and the potential environmental impact of the system. This second objective is represented by the maximal relative increase of indicator results. This, in turn, derives from a sensitivity analysis of life cycle inventory analysis (LCIA) integrated into mixed integer nonlinear programming (MINLP). This means, the LCA-rule, which claims that environmental indicators must not be aggregated, can be adhered strictly. In the case study, the synthesis procedure for eco-optimal design is applied to a large scale phosphating. Depending on the weighting ratio for the representative impact factor and the cost in the objective function, Pareto-optimal solution sets were calculated allowing to assess different eco-optimal RRN alternatives and to find a way out of the main dilemma between the contradicting behavior of energy demand and wastewater production. Up to 74% improvement in tennis of environmental indicators could be realized at low cost increase. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The impact assessment phase of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) has received much criticism due to lack of consistency. While the ISO standards for LCA did make great strides in advancing the consensus in this area, ISO is not prescriptive, but has left much room for innovation and therefore inconsistency. To address this lack of consistency, there is currently an effort underway to provide a conceptual framework for Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) and a recommended practice to include a list of impact categories, category indicators, and underlying methodologies. This is an enormous undertaking, especially in light of the current fundamental lack of consensus of the basic elements to be included in a LCIA (e.g., impact categories, impacts, and areas of protection). ISO 14042 requires selection of impact categories that "reflect a comprehensive set of environmental issues" related to the system being studied, especially for "comparative assertions" that involve public marketing claims. To be comprehensive, it is necessary to have a listing of impacts that "could" be included within the LCIA before entering into discussions of impacts that "should" be included. In addition to providing a critical analysis of existing and emerging impact assessment approaches, this paper will formulate a structured representation that a
llows more informed selection of approaches. The definitions and relationships between midpoint, endpoint, damage, and areas of protection will be presented in greater detail, along with the equations that are common to many of the approaches Finally, a discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of displaying results at various stages in the environmental models will be presented in great detail.Groundwater remediation technologies, such as pump-and-treat (PTS) and funnel-and-gate systems (FGS), aim at reducing locally appearing contaminations. Therefore, these methodologies are basically evaluated with respect to their capability to yield local improvements of an environmental situation, commonly neglecting that their application is also associated with secondary impacts. Life cycle assessment (LCA) represents a widely accepted method of assessing the environmental aspects and potential impacts related to a product, process or service. This study presents the set-up of a LCA framework in order to compare the secondary impacts caused by two conceptually different technologies at the site of a former manufactured gas plant in the city of Karlsruhe, Germany. As a FGS is already operating at this site, a hypothetical PTS of the same functionality is adopted. During the LCA, the remediation systems are evaluated by focusing on the main technical elements and their significance with respect to resource depletion and potential adverse effects on ecological quality, as well as on human health. Seven impact categories are distinguished to address a broad spectrum of possible environmental loads. A main point of discussion is the reliability of technical assumptions and performance predictions for the future. It is obvious that a high uncertainty exists when estimating impact specific indicator values over operation times of decades. An uncertainty analysis is conducted to include the imprecision of the underlying emission and consumption data and a scenario analysis is utilised to contrast various possible technological variants. Though the results of the study are highly site-specific, a generalised relative evaluation of potential impacts and their main sources is the principle objective rather than a discussion of the calculated absolute impacts. A crucial finding that can be applied to any other site is the central role of steel, which particularly derogates the valuation of FGS due to the associated emissions that are harmful to human health. In view of that, environmental credits can be achieved by selecting a mineral-based wall instead of sheet piles for the funnel construction and by minimising the steel consumption for the gate construction. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is exclusively considered as the treatment material, both in-situ and on-site. Here it is identified as an additional main determinant of the relative assessment of the technologies since it is continuously consumed. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.A district heating (DH) system usually covers a local heat market only. Each system is characterised. by a unique size, load profile and set of heat supply technologies. This diversity makes it difficult to analyse changes in the DH sector of a country as a whole. In national energy systems modelling and in life cycle assessment (LCA), the DH systems are typically, for practical reasons, aggregated to one nati
onal system, which is then subjected to changes. In order to investigate if this aggregated systems level indeed is sufficient for policy analysis purposes, two commonly used aggregation methods are validated against a third, newly developed model, here denoted the HEATSPOT model, covering 99% of the Swedish DH production. The approach used in this model is that all DH systems are described system by system and rational responses of the systems to changes in e.g. fuel prices or policy measures are calculated locally for the respective systems before the results are aggregated to a national level. The validation is carried out using results from a study on expansion of waste-fuel based DH production in Sweden in terms of changes in fuel supply and CO2-emissions. The work clearly shows that the resulting changes in fuel supply deviate considerably with choice of method. Regarding for example the change in biomass supply, the deviations are between - 23 and + 9% compared to the HEATSPOT results dependent on aggregation method used. The deviations in resulting fuel supply between the methods will, in turn, also lead to considerable deviations in CO2-emissions from the DH sector. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The appropriateness of the fossil Cumulative Energy Demand (CED) as an indicator for the environmental performance of products and processes is explored with a regression analysis between the environmental life-cycle impacts and fossil CEDs of 1218 products, divided into the product categories "energy production", "material production", "transport", and "waste treatment". Our results show that, for all product groups but waste treatment, the fossil CED correlates well with most impact categories, such as global warming, resource depletion, acidification, eutrophication, tropospheric ozone formation, ozone depletion, and human toxicity (explained variance between 46% and 100%). We conclude that the use of fossil fuels is an important driver of several environmental impacts and thereby indicative for many environmental problems. It may therefore serve as a screening indicator for environmental performance. However, the usefulness of fossil CED as a stand-alone indicator for environmental impact is limited by the large uncertainty in the product-specific fossil CED-based impact scores (larger than a factor of 10 for the majority of the impact categories; 95% confidence interval). A major reason for this high uncertainty is nonfossil energy related emissions and land use, such as landfill leachates, radionuclide emissions, and land use in agriculture and forestry.Recycling is an important activity of our developed economies, which creates a dynamic resource of secondary raw materials that behaves as a mine continuously replenished with new iron units. Because recycled materials (e.g. steel scrap) are usually chemically close to the material, to the cycle of which they contribute (steel), they also require less energy and have a lesser impact on the environment than the same materials if they were produced from virgin sources (iron ore). Recycling is especially important in developed countries with a historical background of industrial activities, as they can help reduce the dependency on primary raw materials that are concentrated in a few far-away geographical locations in the world. All of this applies to iron and steel. Parado
xically though, recycling is not fully integrated in the tool which is most commonly used as a metric of the environmental impact of human activities on the environment, i.e. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). There is much freedom left to the LCA practitioner to choose how he wants to take recycling into account, which is somewhat of a conundrum as LCA is often used to define policy in government, business and society circles and, as such, ought to be based on a sound, objective, extensive and unbiased description of recycling as a practice, not as a future development or a commitment for the future. This paper proposes a methodology for taking recycling into account within LCA tools with the view of meeting these reality criteria. The reasoning for choosing the methodology is exposed step by step, as the reader is led through various methods that are possible and/or available for doing it and a criticism of each of them is proposed on the way. The final proposal is centered on the multiple-recycling model, which best describes the practical way that materials are actually recycled in the economy. The model centers on a set of iron units, which originate from virgin raw material, an iron ore mine as far as iron is concerned, are then used in the economy and are finally recycled over and over again, with a recycling rate less than unity. Some material is "lost" at each step for recycling, but not for the Life Cycle Inventory, as it goes through its end-of-life (EOL) whenever it leaves the recycling loop. For example, 1 ton of iron produced from iron ore will produce 5 t of steel used several times in the economy (with a recycling rate of 80%) and eventually a cumulated I t of EOL iron. This is what constitutes the functional unit on which the LCA is carried out. From a practical standpoint, the results obtained for this complex functional unit are attributed to steel on the basis of a specific value (e.g. t of CO, per t of steel), which amounts to averaging the impact over the various steps of the recycling process on a weighted average basis, depending on the amount of material recycled at each step. The paper proposes the detailed method for carrying this out, while identifying the fairly large number of parameters that describe the recycling practice. Of course, the expert LCA practitioner can implement the methodology in all its complexity by himself, but it would be simpler and more user-friendly to pre-calculate the effects of recycling and to include them in the Life Cycle Inventory of Steel. This is what we propose as the best solution for the future.Contaminated sediments and other sites present a difficult challenge for environmental decisionmakers. They are typically slow to recover or attenuate naturally, may involve multiple regulatory agencies and stakeholder groups, and engender multiple toxicological and ecotoxicological risks. While environmental decision-making strategies over the last several decades have evolved into increasingly more sophisticated, information-intensive, and complex approaches, there remains considerable dissatisfaction among business, industry, and the public with existing management strategies. Consequently, contaminated sediments and materials are the subject of intense technology development, such as beneficial reuse or in situ treatment. However, current decision analysis approaches, such as comparative 
risk assessment, benefit-cost analysis, and life cycle assessment, do not offer a comprehensive approach for incorporating the varied types of information and multiple stakeholder and public views that must typically be brought to bear when new technologies are under consideration. Alternatively, multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) offers a scientifically sound decision framework for management of contaminated materials or sites where stakeholder participation is of crucial concern and criteria such as economics, environmental impacts, safety, and risk cannot be easily condensed into simple monetary expressions. This article brings together a multidisciplinary review of existing decision-making approaches at regulatory agencies in the United States and Europe and synthesizes state-of-the-art research in MCDA methods applicable to the assessment of contaminated sediment management technologies. Additionally, it tests an MCDA approach for coupling expert judgment and stakeholder values in a hypothetical contaminated sediments management case study wherein MCDA is used as a tool for testing stakeholder responses to and improving expert assessment of innovative contaminated sediments technologies.A new model has been developed for evaluating the overall resource consumption and environmental impacts of municipal solid waste management systems by the use of life cycle assessment. The model is named EASEWASTE (Environmental Assessment of Solid Waste Systems and Technologies) and is able to compare different waste management strategies, waste treatment methods and waste process technologies. The potential environmental impacts can be traced back to the most important processes and waste fractions that contribute to the relevant impacts. A model like EASEWASTE can be used by waste planners to optimize current waste management systems with respect to environmental achievements and by authorities to Set Guidelines and regulations and to evaluate different strategies for handling of waste. The waste hierarchy has for decades been governing waste management but the ranking of handling approaches may not always be the most environmentally friendly. The EASEWASTE model can identify the most environmentally sustainable solution, which may differ among waste materials and regions and can add valuable information about environmental achievements from each process in a solid waste management system.A new computer based life cycle assessment model (EASE-WASTE) was used to evaluate a municipal solid waste system with the purpose of identifying environmental benefits and disadvantages by anaerobic digestion of source-separated household waste and incineration. The most important processes that were included in the study are optical sorting and pre-treatment, anaerobic digestion with heat and power recovery, incineration with heat and power recovery, use of digested biomass on arable soils and finally, an estimated surplus consumption of plastic in order to achieve a higher quality and quantity of organic waste to the biogas plant. Results showed that there were no significant differences in most of the assessed environmental impacts for the two scenarios. However, the use of digested biomass may cause a potential toxicity impact on human health due to the heavy metal content of the organic waste. A sensitivity analysis showed that the results are sensitive
 to the energy recovery efficiencies, to the extra plastic consumption for waste bags and to the content of heavy metals in the waste. A model such as EASE-WASTE is very suitable for evaluating the overall environmental consequences of different waste management strategies and technologies, and can be used for most waste material fractions existing in household waste.In this work, the authors intend to introduce to the scientific community a novel integrated approach to environmental impact assessment, appropriately named SUstainability Multicriteria Multiscale Assessment (SUMMA). Its main objective is to overcome the inherent shortcomings of all single-criterion approaches, which constitute the vast majority of the Life Cycle Assessments performed to date in the scientific literature, and which invariably lead to partial and often misleading results. Furthermore, SUMMA is structured so as to enable a consistent sensitivity analysis of all the calculated impact indicators, a procedure that is of crucial importance for assessing the variability and reliability of the results, but which is only rarely adopted. The suggested framework is applied to selected case studies (coal gasification, bauxite mining, aluminium production and fuel cell manufacture), the results of which are discussed. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Although re-refining of spent lubricating oils (used oils) has been practiced with varying technical and commercial success for over the past 50 years, a sustainable processing technology has yet to become widely accepted. Poor on-stream efficiency, inconsistent product quality, and careless management of feedstock contaminants and byproducts have often resulted in widespread environmental problems and poor economics. Environmentally-conscious design of processes and products is increasingly viewed as an integral strategy in the sustainable development of new refining and chemical processes. Life cycle assessment is becoming the preferred methodology for comparing the environmental impacts of competing processes. A life cycle analyses of a promising new re-refining technology, the HyLube (TM) process, has been undertaken to quantify the intrinsic benefits of HyLube re-refining over the current practice of recovering used oils for fuel value.The principles regarding the conversion of solar thermal power have been known for more than a century, however its commercial exploitation and the construction of plants on an industrial scale did not occur until the mid 1980's. The first pilot plants that were built in various countries around the world tested their technological, economic and environmental performance and gave highly encouraging results. One of the emerging technologies of the solar thermal sector is the so-called Dish - Stirling system which transmits thermal energy, collected by a paraboloidal dish reflector, to a Stirling engine connected up to an alternator. That renewable energy technologies, particularly in the production phase, are currently those that generate a lower environmental impact compared to traditional fossil fuel systems is now well-established. Despite this, many studies fail to include an evaluation of the impacts generated by systems designed and built for energy production over their entire life cycle. The aim of this paper is to provide, with the aid of LCA, a preliminary environmental
 assessment analysis of a paraboloidal dish solar thermal power plant.Implementation of renewable wind and solar energy sources instead of fossil fuels to produce such energy carriers as electricity and hydrogen facilitates reductions in gaseous emissions. Unlike for traditional fossil fuel technologies, greenhouse gas emissions from renewable technologies are associated mainly with the construction of a power plant. With present costs of wind and solar electricity, it is shown that, when electricity from renewable sources replaces electricity from natural gas, the cost of greenhouse gas emissions abatement is about four times less than the cost if hydrogen from renewable sources replaces hydrogen produced from natural gas. When renewable-based hydrogen is used instead of gasoline in a fuel cell vehicle, the cost of greenhouse gas emissions reduction approaches the same value as for renewable-based electricity only if the fuel cell vehicle efficiency exceeds significantly (i.e., by about two times) that of an internal combustion vehicle. It is also shown that when 6000 turbines (Kenetech KVS-33) with a capacity 350 kW and a capacity factor of 24% replace a 500-MW gas-fired power generation plant with an efficiency of 40%, annual greenhouse gas emissions are reduced by 2.3 megatons. The incremental additional annual cost is about $280 million (US). The results provide a useful approach to an optimal strategy for greenhouse gas emissions mitigation.This paper examines the definition of a CO2 credit within the context of geological storage. At present, there is no international standard in place for the calculation Of CO2 emission reduction credits from geological storage. The determination of the gross storage of CO2 in a geological setting is relatively easy through the use of standard metering systems at the wellhead. This does not account for the many factors that could be considered to affect the net storage of CO2. Net calculations will require the development of standards that are consistent with other forms of storage (biological storage for example) and will include surface leakage, length of time storage is required, definition of the injection zone, subsurface CO2 migration, recycling penalties, etc. The CO2 credit may well be less than the gross amount of CO2 injected because of any CO2 penalty that might be imposed. This could be considered as a discount factor that would be applied to each tonne of CO2 stored in the subsurface. Determining a discount factor will require a complete understanding of the lifecycle of the CO2 injected into the subsurface, including projections of the fate of this CO2 over time. Allocation of emissions at various stages of the lifecycle will be achieved by application of a clear set of definitions that will allow these emissions to be inventoried. There will need to be a clear understanding of what is meant by leakage and of how the inventories will be developed. This paper focuses on the assessment of net and gross storage calculations for the CO2 to be injected into the subsurface, with a brief review of some of the issues requiring definition to assess subsurface net storage calculations.Greenhouse gas and criteria air contaminants associated with motor vehicles are major items in the national inventories of these emissions. While exhaust after-treatment technology has achieved dramatic reduction
s in the emissions of criteria air contaminants (CC, HQ NOx, PM), alternative technologies for comparable GHG emission reductions are much more challenging. The use of renewable energy forms, or alternative fuels with lower carbon intensity are engineering responses that require careful assessment on a location specific basis before the emission reductions benefits can be accurately assessed. Life-cycle analysis tools such as NRCan's GHGenius model have been developed to serve as analytical frameworks and assist in such assessment This paper starts by reviewing the issues involved in the life-cycle analysis of alternative transportation technologies, and the available life-cycle tools such as Life Cycle Emissions Model (LEM), GHGenius and Greenhouse Gases, Regulated Emissions and Energy Use in Transportation (GREET) model. The paper then examines the case of compressed natural gas (CNG) vs. diesel from the perspective of a hypothetical Clean Development mechanism (CDM) project for the CNG transit bus fleet in Beijing that was completed as part of the Canada-China Cooperation for Climate Change program.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a "cradle-to-grave" (or "well-to-wheels') approach for assessing industrial systems. "Cradle-to-grave" begins with the gathering of raw materials from the earth to create the product and ends at the point when all materials are returned to the earth. LCA evaluates all stages of a product's life from the perspective that they are interdependent (i.e. meaning that one operation leads to the next). LCA enables the estimation of the cumulative environmental impacts resulting from all stages in the product life cycle, often including impacts not considered in more traditional analyses (e.g. raw material extraction, material transportation, ultimate product disposal). By including the impacts throughout the product life cycle, LCA provides a comprehensive view of the environmental aspects of the product or process and a more accurate picture of the true environmental trade-offs in product selection. The GHGenius model has been developed for Natural Resources Canada over the past seven years. It is based on the 1998 version of Dr. Mark Delucchi's Lifecycle Emissions Model (LEM). GHGenius is capable of analyzing greenhouse gas (GHG) and many criteria air contaminant emissions associated with the production and use of traditional and alternative transportation fuels. Additionally, it considers a few circumstances where the fuels could be used in stationary applications rather than for transportation. GHGenius can estimate air emissions for past, present and future years (through to 2050). This is done using historical data and correlations that are stored in the model for changes with time. GHGenius can perform LCA either for specific regions (east, central or west) of Canada, the United States and Mexico or for each country as a whole. The most comprehensive data in GHGenius is for Canadian applications.Historically, cost has been the primary factor driving the specification of building envelope components and systems. Recent trends towards environmentally conscious design and construction have resulted in a focus on the environmental impacts of material selection, with emphasis on a life cycle approach. This paper will demonstrate how one might use a life cycle analysis approach to determine optimal insulation levels 
with a sole focus on environmental impact. The demonstration will include an analysis of commercial roof insulation and residential attic insulation taking into consideration their respective environmental life cycle burdens and operating energy environmental impacts. Embodied environmental material impacts will be estimated using ATHENA's Environmental Impact Estimator software. The ATHENA software is a Canadian developed and internationally recognized means of obtaining comprehensive and reliable environmental life cycle burdens of building assemblies. It covers building material and system life cycle stages from the "cradle" (natural resource extraction or recycling facility) through to its "end-of-life" (grave). For this paper, results reporting of material effects will include embodied energy and global warming potential as indicators of environmental burden. For this paper, two Ottawa buildings will be simulated several times. Each of the simulations will have identical building properties, with the exception of roof or attic insulation, which will vary by amount for each simulation. The analysis will focus on the operational differences between the various roof insulation options, and the development of the operational environmental effects of these different options. For the commercial building, operational energy will be estimated using a DOE 2.2 based whole building operating energy simulator such as EQUEST or EE-4. The building used for the modeling will be an existing two-storey commercial office building. The residential building will be simulated using HOT 2000 software from NRCan. These simulation software systems will allow detailed analysis of building materials and systems including the effects of HVAC systems, envelope systems, geometry, size and location. The paper will present "payback periods " based not on cost, but on environmental effects, for different amounts of insulation. We will demonstrate a method to determine the level of insulation at which the material environmental burden of the insulation exceeds the operational benefits of the insulation. The process used will demonstrate a method to allow building designers the opportunity to base their decision making with respect to roof or attic insulation on environmental effects rather than cost.The production of ceramic tiles has significant influence to environment due to consumption of energy sources, raw material, emission and waste that emerges throughout the production. The life cycle assessment method is used to show and test the possibility of decreasing the influence of contemporary manufacturing process of ceramic tiles to environment. The ceramic tiles are produced in monofiring production technology as a part of integrated management system using international accepted standards for quality ISO 9001 and for management environment ISO 14001. The influence of life cycle phases of ceramic tiles and total influence to environment is determined by usage of EKO indicator 99. We tested the possibility of using data obtained by evaluation to management decisions about the decreasing the influence of production process as a life cycle phase through the decreasing of energy consumption and natural resources. The consumption of energy sources as gas and electricity was reduced by using the projects for increasing the power efficiency. The savings in gas consump
tion are achieved by building in unit for supplying with waste warm from oven to atomizer and electronic equipment for atomizer automatic control. The procedures for decreasing the electricity consumption are also used.The Systems and Information Engineering Department at the University of Virginia has teamed with the Virginia Department of Criminal Justice Services since 2000 to develop WebCAT, the Web-based Crime Analysis Toolkit. WebCAT provides crime analysts with a tool to access Virginia's statewide crime data and effectively analyze it. The authors have prepared WebCAT for deployment by finishing its development, conducting an integrated system performance evaluation, and performing a life cycle analysis. Regarding deployment, the data acquisition, query time efficiency, and spatial mapping capabilities have been improved. A performance evaluation assessed the effectiveness of WebCAT's developments to ensure that it is now a more efficient tool. Finally, the life cycle analysis provided a methodology for maintaining WebCAT after deployment. The work done this year guarantees that WebCAT is not only ready for deployment, but also that it will be a sustainable toolkit that will aid in crime prevention in years to come.Nanotechnology is a rapidly growing field fraught with uncertainty due to the still nascent efforts to understand its potential health risks and ecosystem dynamics. Yet, nanotechnology, like other still-emerging technologies, provides fertile territory for establishing an "upstream" management system that minimizes future risks while still in research and design. Thus, to identify the characteristics of such a proactive nano management system, gap analyses were performed on the sustainable engineering frameworks: Twelve Principles of Green Engineering, Earth Systems Engineering and Management, Life Cycle Assessment, and Cradle to Cradle, with economic, socio-cultural, environmental, and technical criteria, using buckyballs (endohedral metallofullerenes), as a case study nanomaterial. It was determined that, partly due to the unavailability of most quantitative life cycle data, and the need for modifications of these frameworks to function both as proactive as well as nano-specific, it is premature to identify a specific optimal framework. Thus, a "hybrid" framework made partly from the tools, principles, and values of the existing methods like the ones analyzed here is proposed.Ethanol is a renewable fuel that can be produced in small farm-scale plants as well as in medium- and large-scale industrial plants for use in e.g. heavy diesel engines. The purpose of this study was to analyse whether the use of a small-scale production system reduced the environmental load in comparison to a medium- and a large-scale system. Therefore, a limited life cycle assessment (LCA), including air emissions and energy requirements, was carried out for the three plant sizes. For the small plant and with physical allocation, the global-warming potential was 31.5 g CO2-eq/MJ(fuel), the acidification potential was 198 mg SO2-eq/MJ(fuel), the eutrophication potential was 30.9 mg PO43--eq/MJ(fuel), the photochemical ozone creation potential was 13.8 mg C2H4-eq/MJ(fuel) and the energy requirement 359 kJ/MJ(fuel). It was shown that the differences in environmental impact and energy requirement between small-, medium- and large-scale systems were
 small. The longer transport distances to a certain degree Outweighed the higher energy efficiency and the more efficient use of machinery and buildings in the large-scale system. The dominating production step was the cultivation, in which production of fertilisers, followed by soil emissions and tractive power, made major contributions to the environmental load. The choice of allocation method had a certain influence on the difference between the scales, whereas the influence Of uncertainty in input data and of some alternative production strategies was small. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.The purpose of this paper is to show the effectiveness of porous residential buildings in hot and humid regions in the light of cooling load and CO2 emission reductions. Thermal and Airflow Network analysis and LCA analysis are used for these simulations. Two scales of voids, namely building-scale voids and component-scale voids are considered. In the previous paper (Hirano et at. Building and Environment, forthcoming), it was revealed that building-scale voids are substantially effective in terms of reducing the cooling load. This paper firstly focuses on the cooling load reduction effects of component-scale voids, then moves on to the CO2 emission reduction effects of both component- and building-scale voids. Additionally, other environmentally friendly techniques are examined in order to assess the feasibility of the Architectural Institute of Japan (AIJ) charter, which sets the target that new buildings should extend their service life up to 100 years as well as reduce Life-Cycle CO2 (LCCO2) emission by 30%. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Sustainability of building construction and its services is increasingly drawing attention. In this respect CIBSE has issued a number of calls to industry. Solar water heating systems are now economically competitive and are being used throughout the world. Following earlier work of the present authors on the life cycle assessment (LCA) for building components,(1,2) this work presents a monetary, energy usage and environmental impact assessment for solar water heaters. It has been shown herein that for a developing country like Pakistan where large amounts of hot water are required within industry, solar water heating offers favorable payback periods on each of the above three counts. It has been estimated that under the tested conditions, the embodied energy payback period for the plain and finned heater is equivalent to 185 days and 169 days respectively. It has also been found that the amount of carbon released during the construction process of plain and finned water heaters is 27.9 kg and 29.7 kg respectively. Annual carbon saving for the plain and finned water heaters has been calculated to be equivalent to 59.5 kg and 69.6 kg respectively, which in turn gives a carbon payback period of 156 days and 171 days. The monetary payback period for the plain and finned heater has been found to be equivalent to 6.7 years and 6.1 years respectively.Purpose - This paper proposes an integrated methodology for process design to guide decision making under uncertainty by combining life cycle assessment (LCA) with multi-criteria decision-making tools. Design/methodology/approach - Cleaner and greener technologies for process and product selection and design have gained popularity in recent years. 
The LCA is a systematic approach that enables selection of cleaner and greener products and processes. Recently, significant progress has been made for the use of LCA for product/process evaluation and selection. However, its use in process design and environmental decision making has not been fully exploited. The proposed methodology GreenPro-I is a systematic approach to estimate environmental risks/impacts associated with life cycle of products, processes and services. It evaluates environmental burdens by quantifying energy and materials used and waste released into the environment. It identifies and evaluates opportunities, which affect environmental improvements. The assessment includes the extraction/excavation and processing of raw materials, manufacturing, transportation and distribution, use, recycle, and final disposal. Findings - GreenPro-I overcomes many of the problems faced in the conventional approaches and establishes a link between the environmental risks/impacts, cost, and technical feasibility of processes. Originality/value - GreenPro-I provides a comprehensive decision-making tool for designers, regulatory agencies, business organizations and other stakeholders.Different advanced oxidation processes (AOPs) have been applied to remove the organic carbon content of a paper mill effluent originating from the Kraft pulp bleaching process. The considered AOPs were: TiO(2)-mediated heterogeneous photocatalysis, TiO(2)-mediated heterogeneous photocatalysis assisted with H(2)O(2), TiO(2)-mediated heterogeneous photocatalysis coupled with Fenton, photo-Fenton, ozonation and ozonation with UV-A light irradiation. The application of the selected AOPs all resulted in a considerable decrease in dissolved organic carbon (DOC) content with variable treatment efficiencies depending upon the nature/type of the applied AOP. A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study was used as a tool to compare the different AOPs in terms of their environmental impact. Heterogeneous photocatalysis coupled with the Fenton's reagent proved to have the lowest environmental impact accompanied with a moderate-to-high DOC removal rate. On the other hand, heterogeneous photocatalysis appeared to be the worst AOP both in terms of DOC abatement rate and environmental impact. For the studied AOPs, LCA has indicated that the environmental impact was attributable to the high electrical energy (power) consumption necessary to run a UV-A lamp or to produce ozone. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In contrast to most widely-used electricity generation technologies, photovoltaic (PV) systems produce little or no environmental pollution at the point of use, contributing to their market status as an environmentally preferable product. However, there are numerous materials and energy inputs that go into the fabrication of the components of PV systems that may carry significant environmental burdens. As the PV industry attempts to scale from the global production of gigawatts to the global production of terawatts, it will become increasingly important to minimize these other impacts. The objective of this study is to take a full life-cycle view of the environmental impacts of photovoltaic (PV) energy production, and to present a best-case system design representing the most preferable choices in PV manufacturing, design and installation. In this effort, we systematica
lly examine the technology possibilities and design options from feedstock to integration in order to identify current and future opportunities for minimizing environmental impacts. Adherence to these choices can further strengthen the environmental stance of the PV industry.In this paper, several typical assessment tools on product green degree are introduced and compared with one another, models, data, enable tools and frameworks of those methods and their application processes are analyzed, general applicability of these methods is presented together with the following four shortcomings: fuzzy boundary of life cycle, immaturity and un-accessibility of assessment data, uncertainty of assessment and distortion of dynamic manufacturing system description. To solve these problems preparatorily, a concept of Panel Method (PM) and Panel Method (PM) enabling model is formed, a PM -based weighting coefficient ensuring approach is carried out to construct a practical green degree assessment tool. Under the circumstance of lack of statistic data on national level, the method could be regarded as a practical and feasible method. Further more, a network-based implementation platform of PM is put forward. Finally, some important problems of LCA process and bottleneck of green technology development are discussed.Modular and parielized construction techniques have the potential of significantly reducing environmental impact - although much of that potential is unrealized among prefab homebuilders in the United States today. The ecoMOD project at the University of Virginia School of Architecture is intended to create a series of ecological, modular and affordable house prototypes. The goal is to demonstrate the environmental potential of prefabrication, and to challenge the modular and manufactured housing industry in the U.S. to explore this potential. In the context of this research and design/build project, an interdisciplinary group of architecture, engineering, landscape architecture, business, environmental science, planning and economics students are participating in the design, construction and evaluation phases of the project. The project is imbedded in the curriculum of the university. Working with non-profit affordable housing organizations, the built homes will be sold to low-income families with subsidies for down payments and financing. The first completed house is currently being evaluated as part of a process to determine the environmental impact of the homes during their life cycle; perceptions of the homes by the owners and neighbors; the energy efficiency of the design and equipment; the feasibility of their transfer to the modular housing industry; the life cycle costs; and the financial viability of taking the prototypes into production. The results of the evaluations will influence later designs, and the evaluation methods and recommendations will be made publicly available. The project is mostly funded, and will continue through to 2010 at a minimum.Despite the variety of toolkits, life cycle analysis, models, and other forms of guidance on sustainable resource use in architecture, the amount of energy used and waste created in the industry is going up on a global basis. The conventional approach to promoting sustainable specification clearly isn't working. This paper offers a new approach based on a recent qualitative case stu
dy of people's attitudes, associations and understanding of key construction materials in housing. The findings suggest that people have a deep tacit knowledge of materiality which draws on the ecological "affordances" offered by materials and are very clear about which materials they want, where, and why. These affordances, identified in Gibson's theory of ecological perception, transcend the usual subject/object divide and challenge designers to do likewise. This tacit knowledge appears uniquely related to people's place of upbringing as well as their occupation. It supports the notion that a bioregional approach should be adopted for material and product specification which empowers users to take more responsibility for the materiality of the buildings they live and work in. The emotional "endearment" of materiality in architecture to the users is argued as a key factor in potentially reducing maintenance costs and subsequent resource impacts. Currently, architecture is conceived primarily as the design of space using construction resources. Refraining architecture as the design of resource use in place, draws on users' local knowledge and an implaced, more natural materiality. Design and research are thus challenged to focus on a more limited palette of materials, based on the findings of the study, and work to the edge of technology in developing building elements related to these. This way of working can then be closely linked into the eco-systemic processes which underlie any sustainable design endeavour that aims to harmonise with nature.In this paper the environmental impact of the most important materials used for the production of technical equipments in buildings is assessed. The analysis is performed according to Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. The LCA of a product is conducted by compiling an inventory of relevant inputs and outputs, and by evaluating the potential environmental impact associated with them. In the evaluation phase different impact categories are defined; normalisation and weighting are also performed to obtain a single score. All these phases, except inventory, can be carried out in different ways, according to different impact assessment methodologies (LCIA). For this reason, it is useful to compare the results provided by some of the most used methods, namely Eco-indicator 99 and EPS 2000, in order to understand how the assessment can be influenced by the choice of the methodology. In addition, three different cultural perspectives (Egalitarian, Hierarchist, Individualist) are considered when using the Eco-indicator 99 method, since this choice influences calculation and weighting processes. In conclusion, this study will provide an environmental ranking of the most important materials used in technical equipments of buildings, according to different methods and calculation hypotheses. The results will be useful for future analyses concerning the impact of technological systems in buildings.The design stage of a building project is very important. Design impacts the site, physical massing, material selection, potential reuse, and energy performance. This paper addresses issues of durability of building systems in relationship to the life of a building. The spatial planning and systems selection during the design stage, with particular focus on the sustainability and life cycle of systems and mater
ials, are essential to the potential to prolong the building's and its components life by adaptive reuse or by dismantling for reuse at other location or component reuse. Most buildings are designed by current codes to last 30 to 100 years at most. This means that a building built today will consume energy and resources for the replacement of its components and for its maintenance for at least the same time span. If no action is taken today, then our environment is at risk during this entire period, if not longer. It is very important to consider the impact on future generations of what is being done today. Considerations of life cycle evaluation and costing over the entire life of the building are the only reasonable way to evaluate a project. As the refurbishment of buildings has potentially the least environmental impact, it is important to consider the implications of designing at least some elements, notably the structure, to provide flexibility and potential for alternative use.In recent years the use of technological systems in buildings has considerably grown; the components are produced by industrial processes whose energetic and environmental impact is outstanding. The aim of this paper is the evaluation of the environmental impact and the energetic cost related to technological systems (heating, air conditioning, waterworks, fire-proofing, etc.). To this aim the Life Cycle Assessment approach is used; the environmental damage is assessed by means of the Eco-indicator 99 method. For every component (pipes, ducts, wires, radiators) different solutions and materials are considered, corresponding to the current technologies, in order to find out the best and less impactive solution. A case study is then considered to show the environmental benefit achievable by means of a proper design. The technical equipment of a real building is taken into account, and an "ecological" version is defined, by choosing the best solution for every component. The score of the whole apparatus in the ecological version is then compared to the one of the actual installation, showing that an outstanding reduction of the environmental impact can be obtained.In order to solve problems modular type camshafts have, that is, reducing weight, increasing oil filling time and designing multi-valve system, research was initiated about feasibility for WE (Desing for Environment) about ultralight camshaft. Through LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) and properties and process evaluation, an attempt has been made to develop cost-effectvie process for ultiralight aluminum camshaft without the problems modular type camshaft have. The results clearly show 50% weight reduction achieved and better environmental impact of the ultralight aluminum camshaft compared with that of modular camshafts.This paper illustrates the exergy determination of over 70 minerals, which enables the straightforward application of exergy resource accounting within life cycle approaches. Three recent thermochemical databases were applied, 2 of which are internally consistent. The revision of the chemical exergy of 85 elements, yielding an average difference of only 1.2% relative to the most recent tabulation, is discussed. The exergy values of minerals were then determined which yielded larger differences with the values cited in literature, up to a factor 14. The results for aluminum compounds led to 
the selection of a new reference species for aluminum. Whenever possible the uncertainties on the results were determined; the scatter in values deduced from different databases proved to give a better view on data uncertainty. The analysis shows the importance of using accurate thermochemical data in the evaluation of mineral exergies.The aim of this study is to compare the environmental effects, through the Life Cycle Assessment approach, of three hydrogen production methods: methane steam reforming, water electrolysis fed by photovoltaic electricity, water electrolysis fed by mini-hydroelectric electricity. The assumptions are based on the "HBUS Firenze" project in progress in Florence (Italy) for the introduction of hydrogen minibuses in the city centre. The inventory of the,compared productive cycles has been performed using literature data and direct data obtained from the device manufactures. The impact analysis has been carried out using two methods, the Ecoindicator'95 and the Ecoindicator'99 also with the intention of qualitatively comparing the results. Besides the "basic option" an improvement has been proposed focusing on the weak points of the productive cycles. In particular concerning photovoltaic and mini-hydroelectric, the construction phase showed a high contribution to environmental load, so some improvements were proposed. The results of the basic option and the improved one have been compared. According to the initial assumptions and the proposed changes, the best option for hydrogen production has been highlighted.The paper presents the results of a LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) of the electric generation by means of photovoltaic panels. It considers mass and energy flows over the whole production process starting from silica extraction to the final panel assembling, considering the most advanced and consolidate technologies for polycrystalline silicon panel production. Some considerations about the production cycle are reported; the most critical phases are the transformation of metallic silicon into solar silicon and the panel assembling. The former process is characterised by a great electricity consumption, even if the most efficient conversion technology is considered, the latter by the use of aluminium frame and glass roofing which are very energy intensive materials. Moreover, the Energy Pay Back Time (EPBT) has been evaluated, considering three geographic collocations of the photovoltaic plant with different values of solar radiation.The greenhouse effect, due to carbon dioxide emissions in atmosphere, is partly responsible for climatic changes. This work intends to take into account the greenhouse impact at the level of industrial process design and optimization. Oil industry belongs to carbon dioxide producing sectors and the tools which enable to analyze their environmental impact are life cycle assessment and exergy analysis. Their combination will be applied to gas-oil catalytic hydrotreatment.The polygeneration considered from the point of view of comprehensive optimizations a highly flexible and cross-sector integrated system of resources, energy and environment. Using coal, petrocoke or heavy oil residues with high sulfur content as feedstock syngas (the main components being CO and H2) is produced through oxygen-blown gasification. Syngas has diverse ways of use. The polygeneration could increase the 
adaptability and robustness of energy-service companies in the marketplace, providing them with flexibility in meeting demands in different market segments while achieving lower production costs and, reducing the risks of reliance on a single feedstock. In addition, with the possibility of achieving high conversion efficiencies and low polluting emissions and facilitating carbon capture, they could deliver high-quality energy services in a cost-effective way while meeting severe environmental requirements. Up to now, through designing and simulation, the efficiency, exergy, economic performance of a series liquid fuel-electricity of polygeneration based coal gasification have been studied. In this paper, Life Cycle Assessment and Emergy Synthesis are jointly used in order to evaluate the environmental performance of a polygeneration system in China. In fact, Life Cycle Assessment focuses primarily on the environmental impact of emissions while ignores the contribution of ecological services. On the other hand, methods from systems ecology do account for ecological inputs, but ignore the impact of emissions, Two cases, coal-based polygeneration system yielding electricity and methanol, and separate methanol plant and IGCC are evaluated and compared. Results indicate that the polygeneration system has better environmental performance, is more sustainable and is less stressful on the environment in comparison with separate plants for methanol and electricity production.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies of products with a major part of their life cycle in biological production systems (i.e. forestry and agriculture) are often incomplete because the assessment of the land use impact is not operational. Most method proposals include the quality of the land in a descriptive way using rank scores for an arbitrarily selected set of indicators. This paper first offers a theoretical framework for the selection of suitable indicators for land use impact assessment, based on ecosystem thermodynamics. According to recent theories on the thermodynamics of open systems, a goal function of ecosystems is to maximize the dissipation of exogenic exergy fluxes by maximizing the internal exergy storage under form of biomass, biodiversity and complex trophical networks. Human impact may decrease this ecosystem exergy level by simplification, i.e. decreasing biomass and destroying internal complexity. Within this theoretical framework, we then studied possibilities for assessing the land use impact in a more direct way by measuring the ecosystems' capacity to dissipate solar exergy. Measuring ecosystem thermal characteristics by using remote sensing techniques was considered a promising tool. Once operational, it could offer a quick and cheap alternative to quantify land use impacts in any terrestrial ecosystem of any size. Recommendations are given for further exploration of this method and for its integration into an ISO compatible LCA framework. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a method aimed at identifying the environmental effects connected with a given product, process or activity along its life cycle. This paper presents results of the application of LCA method in order to evaluate the environmental advantages of natural gas over other fossil fuels and to have advanced techniques for analysing the environmental a
spects of the gas industry. The evaluation of published studies and the application of the method to electricity production with fossil fuels, by using data from published databases and data collected by the gas industry, demonstrate the importance and difficulties of having reliable and updated data required for a significant LCA. Results show that the environmental advantages of natural gas over the other fossil fuels in the final use stage increase still further if the whole life cycle of the fuels, from production to final consumption, is taken into account. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.As fossil fuel reserves become depleted, alternative energy sources will be required. One of the preferred options for an energy vector for the transportation sector is hydrogen. Hydrogen is considered as a clean fuel since its end use in fuel cell is virtually ernission-free with a resulting significant improvement on urban air quality. However, the life cycle environmental impacts of hydrogen use depend strongly on the primary energy resources used and the process chain between the feedstock and its end use. In this study, an integrated decision support framework that combines the analytic hierarchy process and a life cycle analysis (LCA) criterion is proposed for the assessment and ranking of hydrogen production pathways. The LCA criterion was divided into energy consumption, fossil fuel usage, and greenhouse gas emissions. The pathways use electrolysis and steam methane reforming (SMR) as the technology for the production of hydrogen. A total of 11 hydrogen production pathways are compared and ranked using the proposed framework. The overall ranking in this analysis was found to be (1) electrolysis using renewable resources as a source of energy, (2) SMR, and (3) electrolysis using electricity mixes or fossil fuel electrical generation. The most preferred pathway was found to be electrolysis with hydroelectric power as the source of energy.This article summarizes the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) National Risk Management Research Laboratory's Fuel Cell Program (www.epa.gov/ORD/ NRMRL/std/fuelcell) and presents interim findings of an ongoing project aimed at quantifying how clean fuel cell technology is from "cradle-to-grave" compared to conventional power generation processes. Data and data sources will be reviewed by fuel cell type ( polymer exchange membrane, phosphoric acid fuel cell, solid oxide fuel cell, molten carbonate fuel cell, etc.) and life cycle stage ( manufacture, use, end of life). Data gaps will also be identified as well as proposed EPA strategies for filling these "knowledge" gaps regarding the environmental attributes of fuel cells.Reinforced concrete structures are often conceived for a certain time span of serviceability. Due to the superposition of different kinds of loads and particularly due to the presence of aggressive substances the resistance of construction materials is insufficient in numerous cases. Hence, many structures have to be repaired before the end of their designed life span. In case of reinforced concrete structures these repair measures are not only very expensive but they also consume high amounts of energy and materials which causes strong environmental impacts. The main challenge in developing reliable concrete technologies is the capability to enhance the life span of new an
d already repaired structures to a reasonable maximum. When aiming this objective not only durability related material properties have to be accomplished but their environmental impact has to be minimized simultaneously. This paper evaluates different concrete technologies and materials from diverse perspectives: Durability (simulating expected life span using numerical analyses), ecology (product life cycle and environmental impact assessments) and economy (estimating life cycle costs by investment appraisals). This kind of combined analysis facilitates the efficient design of structural elements and repair measures and provides the possibility to significantly increase the life span of new and repaired concrete structures.Due to limited territory for landfills in Singapore, incineration is given top priority for the treatment of wastes that are not recovered, reused or recycled. Unfortunately, incineration emissions contain gases which possess high polluting characteristics that can severely affect human health in the long run. In this paper, a pyrolysis-gasification technology is introduced and compared with an existing incinerator operating in Singapore. Pyrolysis-Gasification technologies have received increasing attention because the process can produce high quality fuels, such as Syngas. A life cycle assessment approach was employed to study the stream of MSW - from generation to its final conversion. The economic considerations, including social costs of air emissions associated with the stream of MSW at each stage, as well as, the economic values of the final products (electricity or Syngas), was evaluated. It was projected that the existing incineration and proposed plants' annual values (p(Total)) were nearly similar - approximately 70 million/year without considering the social or economic costs of pollution. When the costs of air emissions were taken into account, the new pyrolysis-gasification technology displayed a significant advantage over Incineration. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the time to "pay back" the capital expenditure for the proposed plant changed considerably with fluctuations in the amount of Syngas produced and operating costs, but less with capital costs.This paper presents a novel framework to aid assessment and selection in certain technology investments projects. Since most of the methods available for this purpose consider factors that seem to focus almost exclusively on what creates most net value to the buyer of a technology system, ignoring the external costs associated with this system, the technique proposed here has been developed in order to provide a tool for the integration of the environmental externalities in the assessment and selection process. This toot uses the findings of Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and especially the outcomes of the LCA Polygon approach in order to consider for each possible alternative its environmental performance together with any economic aspects, and to result into a single "score", i.e. the relative external cost. This value could be used as the exclusive basis for the comparative appraisal of the candidates, or it could be easily integrated in most of the existing decision methods. A relevant case Study is also included in the paper to illustrate the proposed framework. It is about the assessment of an investment concerning five different vehicle tech
nologies. The result of this application can be easily incorporated in almost any common decision-making model, which intends to take into consideration the externalities of its choice.This paper proposes a new performance evaluation approach to an inventory management system based on an environmental conscious manufacturing system such as a remanufacturing system with consideration for Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). We here formulate an inventory system with single item based on newsboy problem. The system is evaluated by the total cost that includes the holding, the backlogged, the disposal and the CO2 penalty costs. In this approach, we consider two types of inventories: one is the actual product inventory in a factory whereas the other is the LCA inventory that denotes CO2 emission for all the life cycle of the product. This model also includes disposal and recycle rates. Using the suggested model, we can obtain the total inventory cost with consideration for the environment. Numerical examples are considered to illustrate the implementation of the methodology.Increased efficiency of building information flow depends on clearly defined data in the information package to be exchanged. IFC goes a long way to provide this, but falls short in many important scenarios that deals with product information. IFD, or the buildingSMART ontology, brings us one step closer to 100% standardization of the information, and will together with the IDM initiative and IFCs allow an efficient building information exchange. This paper demonstrates how the IFD standard is able to standardize the information in a language agnostic way, and provide the whole building process with new possibilities within the area of product information exchange, knowledge systems, and life-cycle analysis. We will also describe our technical solution to the challenge and refer to the actual implementation of the solution, running on the internet today.In civil engineering, utilization and maintenance are two of the determining ecological and economical factors in a building's life cycle, compared to the construction and demolition phases. From the planning point of view, a rational approach is to estimate and reduce the required resources as far as possible during the early design phase. For this purpose, the Munich Institute of Computational Civil and Environmental Engineering has developed software tools in cooperation with the German consulting and engineering company COPLAN AG. The aim is to automate and accelerate the creation of numerical models for life-cycle analysis and assess construction and maintenance costs taking various time scales into account. Our product model-based approach is of considerable advantage as it makes it possible to estimate the consumption of energy and resources over the entire life cycle of a building and the building occupancy expenses by providing the means to access all relevant data.Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is applied to biobased 1,3-propanediol (PDO) production The cradle-to-factory gate system includes growing of corn, corn milling, converting cornstarch to glucose and fermentative production of PDO using a genetically modified biocatalyst The LCA is of a preliminary biobased process design and is used to identify system improvement targets and benchmark life-cycle environmental performance The analysis indicates that approximately 70%
 of nonrenewable energy is used in producing PDO from glucose Of this, the largest part is used in purifying PDO Biobased PDO is predicted to have significantly lower cradle-to-factory gate nonrenewable energy and climate change potential than PDO derived from ethylene oxide PDO converted to polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT) is predicted to outperform Nylon 6 in these same categories and also have lower NOx emissions.Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an increasingly important evaluation tool for decision making and stakeholder discussion New methodological aspects arising with the application of LCA on products from renewable resources that are by-products or waste of other processes are reflected on the basis of a LCA of biodiesel from tallow (TME) and used vegetable oil (UVO) Two different impact assessment methods (Sustainable Process Index SPI and CML-method) show largely concordant results The SPI gives 'a bigger picture" of the environmental impacts and will be helpful in decision making Depending on the setting of system boundaries the ecological footprint (SPI) is between -1,2 to 4,8 m(2)a/MJ for UVO, between 0,85 to 8,3 m(2)a/MJ for TME compared to 26,1 m(2)a/MJ for fossil diesel.In this paper, life cycle assessment methodology has been used to assess the variations in water use associated with different metal production and processing routes and provide insights into the value derived from water usage in the minerals sector. Using water consumption data derived from the literature it has been shown that the 'cradle-to-ptc' water consumption (or embodied water) for production of the various metals considered in the study ranged from 2.9 m(3)/t for steel up to 252 087 m(3)/t for gold. The results largely reflect the grade of the initial ore used to produce each metal, and can be approximated by the following equation: W = 167.7 G(-0.9039) where W = embodied water (m(3)/t refined metal) G = grade of ore used to produce metal (per cent metal) The study showed that indirect water consumption in the metal production life cycle, in particular that due to electricity generation, can make a significant contribution to the embodied water value, eg aluminium production. When expressed in terms of m(3)/t ore, the results for all metals considered indicated that the embodied water is roughly, on average, three times the water consumption of the mining and concentration stage. It was also shown that the economic value per m(3) of water consumed for the minerals industry exceeds that for the agricultural and industrial sectors, supporting the view that allocating water resources to the minerals industry has a strong underlying economic basis. Water reforms currently taking place in Australia aim to address issues such as competition for water access, reduced security of supply and increase in cost. Consequently the minerals industry, along with others, can be expected to come under increasing pressure to reduce fresh or raw water use and to integrate water use across sectors. While water recycling is an obvious candidate to help reduce water consumption in the minerals industry, issues such as water quality, among others, will influence the extent to which this can be achieved. In addition, wastewater volumes can be minimised using techniques such as pinch analysis to establish and use the minimum water requirement for the process. The use of 
dry or near-dry processing technologies, for which the demand for water is small or zero, may be a more radical solution to the water consumption problem; however, it is possible that the introduction of dry processing would bring with it a new set of problems, including dust.A study was carried out to compare the environmental impacts of the two major iron ore agglomeration processes, sintering and pelletising, using life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology. The following agglomeration processing routes, with the fuel options shown, were investigated: sintering with combined natural gas/coke breeze or charcoal as fuel, grate-kiln pelletising with combined natural gas/coke breeze as fuel, and straight-grate pelletising with combined natural gas/coke breeze as fuel. Inventory data for each process derived from the literature, and in some instances supplemented by additional simulations and calculations, were used in the study and the environmental impact categories considered were gross energy requirement (GER), global warming potential (GWP) and acidification potential (AP). The results of the study showed that the GER, GWP and AP for a sinter plant are higher than those for a pellet plant for the same amount of metallic iron in the agglomerated products. These results are partly due to higher consumption of solid fuel and flux in the sintering process. However, it should be pointed out that the study only compared substantially fluxed sinters with acid pellets that may require additional flux (and hence potentially more greenhouse gases emissions) to be a balanced blast furnace feedstock. Extending the LCA to the blast furnace process stage was beyond the scope of the current study. Within the sinter plant, the sintering stage itself is the largest contributor to the GER, GWP and AP. In the case of pellet plant, the pellet induration stage is the largest contributor to the various environmental impacts. The GER and GWP of a straight-grate pellet plant are marginally higher than those of a grate-kiln pellet plant due to the higher electrical power required by the straight grate system. The substitution of coke breeze with charcoal in the sintering process results in an increase in GER but a decrease in GWP. However, a substantial proportion of the GER is derived from renewable sources (wood), resulting in a decrease in the non-renewable components of this environmental impact. Given the source of the inventory data and the assumptions and approximations made in carrying out the LCAs, it is emphasised that the results presented in this paper should be considered as indicative rather than as definitive results for the two iron ore agglomeration processing routes considered.International policy documents call for the application of life-cycle assessment (LCA) in the development of sustainable patterns of consumption and production. We describe how LCA, in combination with input-output analysis and household consumption data can be used to determine the environmental impact of consumption patterns. We shortly review results from studies focussing on CO2 emissions as environmental indicator. This household environmental impact (HEI) assessment can be used to analyse differences among households according to socioeconomic variables, age, settlement characteristics, and lifestyles. The change of the total environmental impact over time can be att
ributed to underlying variables such as efficiency gains, changes in consumption levels, structural changes, and changes in the population. This provides an understanding of causal factors influencing the development of HEIs, which can be used in scenario modelling. In addition, we describe how HEI assessment can be used to inform policy implementation, both through ex-ante analysis of the possible effect of an intended measure and through the ex-post evaluation of implemented policy measures.The present research work concerned the study of eco design methodologies able to lead designers in planning the entire life cycle of products in the early stages of design and development activities, also including marketing and management aspects. In order to make the use of traditional eco-tools more efficient we tried to develop a streamlined life cycle approach, based on the Life Cycle Assessment criteria, aimed at investigating the end of life of products, throughout the development of several different scenarios which take into account the main phases of the product life cycle. With this aim in mind, an attempt was made to integrate the Life Cycle Modelling approach in the first phases of the Methodical Design process by means of the development of a design technique, called "Screening Life Cycle Modelling" (SLCM).The Eco-PaS methodology supports anticipative weak point analysis of a product's life cycle environmental impact. Using quantitative information on functional parameters available in early design stages, the order of magnitude of an environmental indicator is estimated. This result is obviously influenced by a number of uncertain factors. However, a critical analysis of these factors allows to point the designer at promising design directions at a time of the design process when many degrees of freedom remain available. This paper recapitulates the principles of the Eco-PaS methodology, and applies the method to a design concept of an electric fruit juicer. The validity of the Eco-PaS approach is assessed by comparing the results with a streamlined Life Cycle Assessment study performed on a detailed product design.Although many methodologies and tools have been developed to design environmentally friendly products, life cycle cost aspects have barely been included and likewise there has been no significant discussion on how to effectively combine different tools. There are specific tools supporting environmentally friendly design such as LCA (Life Cycle Assessment), and tools supporting cost optimisation such as Target Costing and Life Cycle Costing. A combination of these tools is necessary to minimise costs along the whole product life cycle while simultaneously fulfilling environmental requirements. The Target Life Cycle Costing (TLCC) method was developed by the Fraunhofer IPA, concentrating on Design for Environment and on optimising product functionalities by decreasing environmental costs. This paper analyses how designers can optimise costs and conduct product redesign by Target Life Cycle Costing, providing case studies on two products: a medical appliance and a washing machine. The analysis shows that implementing TLCC facilitates cost reduction by product redesign considering functional roles of product components from both an environmental and an economic point of view. This type of combination supports designers effectiv
ely, whereas a single tool could not achieve the same results.Reuse and recycling of building material is a growing area of interest and concern in many parts of the USA. Current practices and trends in the building material waste management area are examined from a building life cycle standpoint or cradle to reincarnation concept. Strategies include zero waste, integrated recycling, international approaches, reuse of materials, resource optimisation, waste reduction, and deconstruction. Examination of the waste management hierarchy and life cycle management of material is used to improve the understanding of reuse and recycle opportunities. Other considerations include cost, economic factors, social factors and environmental factors. All of these assessments are needed to develop a comprehensive waste management plan for a specific project. Four case studies are also presented to illustrate the benefits that can be derived from effective building material reuse and recycle.Use of thermal engineering appliances, especially refrigerators and air conditioners has increased enormously in both industrial and in domestic sectors. They cause considerable environmental pollution due to the release of a large quantity of refrigerant (chlorofluorocarbons) and the use of a large quantity of power, generated mainly from low quality domestic coal. Also available energy or exergy is lost due to the use of badly maintained and inefficient equipment. The introduction of Exergy Analysis (EA) based Entropy Added Tax (EAT) proportional to the entropy added or exergy lost in a component will force the manufacturers to improve the efficiency of the component. Analytical calculation of EA based environmental tax using exergy loss, weightage factor and degree of difficulty for reducing exergy loss and also calculation of the tax using nomogram are presented in this paper.Goal, Scope and Background. The importance of the social dimension of sustainable development increased significantly during the last decade of the twentieth century. Industry has subsequently experienced a shift in stakeholder pressures from environmental to social-related concerns, where new developments in the form of projects and technologies are undertaken. However, the measurement of social impacts and the calculation of suitable indicators are less well developed compared to environmental indicators in order to assess the potential liabilities associated with undertaken projects and technologies. The aim of this paper is to propose a Social Impact Indicator (SII) calculation procedure based on a previously introduced Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) calculation procedure for environmental Resource Impact Indicators (RIIs), and to demonstrate the practicability of the SII procedure in the context of the process industry in South Africa. Methods. A framework of social sustainability criteria has been introduced for the South African process industry. The social sub-criteria of the framework are further analyzed, based on project and technology management expertise in the South African process industry, to determine whether the criteria should be addressed at project or technology management level or whether they should rather form part of an overall corporate governance policy for new projects and technologies. Furthermore, the proposed indicators for criteria that are considered appro
priate for project or technology evaluation purposes are constrained by the type of information that is available, i.e. the calculation methodology relies on the availability of regional or national social information where the project will be implemented, as well as the availability of project- or technology-specific social information during the various phases of the project or technology development life cycle. Case studies in the process industry and statistical information for South Africa are subsequently used to establish information availability for the SII calculation procedure, demonstrate the SII method together with the RII method, and determine the practical use of the SII method. Results and Conclusion. The case studies establish that social footprint information as well as project- and technology social data are not readily available in the South African process industry. Consequently, the number of mid-point categories that can be evaluated are minimal, which results in an impaired social picture when compared to the environmental dimension. It is concluded that a quantitative social impact assessment method cannot be applied for project and technology life cycle management purposes in industry at present. Recommendation and Perspective. Following the outcomes of the case studies in the South African process industry, it is recommended that checklists and guidelines be used during project and technology life cycle management practices. Similar to the environmental dimension, it is envisaged that such checklists and guidelines would improve the availability of quantitative data in time, and would therefore make the SII procedure more practical in the future.Goal, Scope and Background. Brazil is the world's biggest producer of coffee beans with approx. a 30% market share. Depending on climate conditions, approx. 30 million bags of coffee beans are exported annually from Brazil, while domestic consumption is around 10 million bags, which makes Brazil the world's third largest coffee-consuming country. Therefore, the goal of this paper is to present the LCA of green coffee produced in Brazil for the reference crops 2001/02 and 2002/03 in order to generate detailed production inventory data as well as to identify the potential environmental impacts of its tillage in order to realize how to reduce those impacts and increase the environmental sustainability of this product. Only the inputs and outputs relative to the coffee tillage were considered. The production of fertilizers, correctives and pesticides were not included in the boundary, but only their amounts. The functional unit selected for this study was 1,000 kg of green coffee destined for exportation. Methods. The LCI was performed according to the ISO 14040 standard series. All information considered in this study (use of water, fossil based energy, fertilizers and chemicals) were taken up in in-depth data collection and evaluation by questionnaires applied on a farm level and/or received by mail. Four Brazilian coffee producer regions were evaluated: Cerrado Mineiro, South of Minas Gerais State, the Marilia and Alta Mogiana regions in Sao Paulo State. These regions have the following geographic coordinates: 44 to 50 degrees W longitude and 18 to 24 degrees S latitude. The data refer to a production of 420,000 coffee bean bags and a productive area of approx. 14,300 ha.
 The varieties of coffee beans considered in this study were Mundo Novo, Catuai (yellow and red), Icatu (yellow and red), Catucai (yellow and red) and Obata. Farm specific data along with agricultural production data have been combined to elaborate a coffee cultivation inventory, which will be applied in an emissions estimation. Results and Conclusion. The production of 1,000 kg of green coffee in Brazil requires approx. 11,400 kg of water, 94 kg of diesel, 270 kg of fertilizers as NPK, 900 kg of total fertilizers, 620 kg of correctives, 10 kg of pesticides and 0.05 hectare of annual land use. Outputs related to these functional units are approx. 3,000 kg of waste water from coffee washing, 8,500 kg of waste water from the wet method and 750 kg of organic residue that is reincorporated to the tillage as fertilizer. The publication of an LCI of agricultural products is a fundamental step for understanding the potential environmental impacts of each tillage and then establishes the basis for product sustainability. In this way, this work is the first Brazilian initiative for applying LCA to coffee cultivation. Recommendation and Perspective. Different agricultural practices demonstrate different environmental profiles. The amount of agricultural pesticide is directly related to agricultural practices as tillage rotation, density of plants, etc. This study supplied important results for a better correlation of the agricultural practices and potential environmental impacts of coffee. Future updates of this study will show the evolution of the natural resource management such as land use, new agricultural practices, lower fertilizers and chemicals use.Background, Aim and Scope. The usual route for improvement of agricultural practice towards sustainability runs via labelling schemes for products or farm practices. In most approaches requirements are set in absolute terms, disregarding the variation in environmental performance of farms. Another approach for promoting sustainable farming concerns the concept of benchmarking, which takes into account competition among farmers. The individual agricultural performance is characterized by quantitative criteria and compared with scores of other relevant farms. Methods. Therefore, a pilot study has been conducted in the Netherlands concerning benchmarking among arable farmers in the Internet involving crop protection. A voluntary Dutch benchmark initiative in the Internet is described including farmers' perception regarding the tool. Results. The results show that the benchmark tool in the Internet allows farmers to compare their environmental and economic performance anonymously and securely in a large-scale open-access environment. The pilot group of farmers responded positively to the instrument. An important factor in success is the ease and speed with which data can be entered into the benchmark tool. Conclusions. A benchmark tool for comparing the environmental performance among farmers can form the basis for agreements between farmers and their costumers. An application involving food industry and retailers is discussed.Goal, Scope and Background. The Apeldoorn Workshop (April 15,h, 2004, Apeldoorn, NL) brought together specialists in LCA and Risk Assessment to discuss current practices and complications of the life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) ecological toxicity (ecotox) methodologies for 
metals. The consensus was that the LCIA methods currently available do not appropriately characterize impacts of metals due to lack of fundamental metals chemistry in the models. A review of five methods available to perform ecotox impact assessment for metals has been prepared to provide, Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) practitioners with a better understanding of the current state of the science and potential biases related to metals. The intent is to provide awareness on issues related to ecotox impact assessment. Methods. In this paper two case studies, one a copper based product (copper tube), the other a zinc-based product (gutter systems), were selected and examined by applying freshwater ecological toxicity impact models - USES-LCA, Eco-indicator 99 (El 99), IMPACT 2002, EDIP 97, and CalTOX-ETP. Both studies are recent, comprehensive, cradle-to-gate, and peer-reviewed. The objective is to review the LCIA results in the context of the practical concerns identified by the Apeldoorn Declaration, in particular illustrating any inconsistencies such as chemical characterization coverage, species specificity, and relative contribution to impact results. Results and Discussion. The results obtained from all five of the LCIA methods for the copper tube LCI pointed to the same substance as being the most important - copper. This result was obtained despite major fundamental differences between the LCIA methods applied. However, variations of results were found when examining the freshwater ecological toxicity potential of zinc gutter systems. Procedural difficulties and inconsistencies were observed. In part this was due to basic differences in model nomenclature and differences in coverage (IMPACT 2002+ and EDIP 97 contained characterization factors for aluminium that resulted in 90% and 22% contribution to burden respectively, the other three methods did not). Differences were also observed relative to the emissions source compartment. In the case of zinc, air emissions were found to be substantial for some ecotox models, whereas, water emissions results were found to be of issue for others. Conclusions. This investigation illustrates the need to proceed with caution when applying LCIA ecotox methodologies to life cycle studies that include metals. Until further improvements are made, the deficiencies should be clearly communicated as part of LCIA reporting. Business or policy decisions should not without further discussion be based solely on the results of the currently available methods for assessing ecotoxicity in LCIA. Outlook. The outlook to remedy deficiencies in the ecological toxicity methods is promising. Recently, the LCIA Toxic Impacts Task Force of the UNEP/SETAC Life Cycle Initiative has formed a subgroup to address specific issues and guide the work towards establishment of sound characterization factors for metals. Although some measure of precision of estimation of potential impact has been observed, such as in the case of copper, accuracy is also a major concern and should be addressed. Further investigation through controlled experimentation is needed, particularly LCIs composed of a variety of inorganics as well as organics constituents. Support for this activity has come from the scientific community and industry as well. Broader aspects of structure and nomenclature are being collectively addressed by the UNEP/SETAC Life 
Cycle Initiative. These efforts will bring practical solutions to issues of naming conventions and LCI to LCIA flow assignments.Goal, Scope and Background. This case study describes the development and utilization of a global, quantitative model of current and projected aluminium and life cycle inventory mass flows. The model and key results were developed to be shared with global aluminium industry technical experts, executives, and external stakeholders to better understand potential paths to more global sustainable aluminium. Methods. The model is based on annual statistical data since 1950 provided by government agencies and regional aluminum associations and on the most recent life cycle inventory intensity data (year 2002) complied for the global industry by the International Aluminium Institute. Modeling of future aluminium and resource flows are based on literature and industry expert projections of future product shipment demand. The availability of recycle flows to meet these market demands are based on projected utilization, yield, and melt loss recovery rates, post-consumer recycling rates, and anticipated future product lifetimes. The model was developed with quantitative 'what-if' capability to determine the positive impact of enhanced recycling, lower resource intense production, and product usage scenarios. Results and Conclusion. The model provides the first quantitative assessment of annual global aluminium and life cycle inventory flows. Results include a quantitative estimate by major market of global aluminium product inventory, system losses, recycle rates, and selected resource requirements and air emissions implications. Recommendation and Perspective. Model results and scenarios have been reviewed and shared with global aluminium technical leaders, executives and key external stakeholders in support of the International Aluminum Institute's new voluntary global objective to better monitor and enhance aluminium recycling and sustainable development initiative.Goal, Scope and Background. In this study, the major flows of cadmium in the U.S. economy are quantified and the primary sinks are identified to gauge the need for additional policy to minimize the potential human health and ecosystem risks associated with these flows. Because of the concurrent occurrence of cadmium and zinc in ore, we also consider the relevant portions of the material cycle of zinc. Methods. We estimated the flows of cadmium through U.S. manufacturing using a mass balance approach with data provided by the U.S. Geological Survey's Minerals Yearbook. Cadmium emissions factors were created using facility specific information found in the U.S. Toxics Release Inventory and were used to model future losses. Data gaps were filled through review of relevant literature. We modeled the import and sales of nickel-cadmium batteries with rechargeable battery usage trends and estimates of market share by battery chemistry. Results and Conclusion. Primary cadmium in the U.S. is almost exclusively produced as a co-product of zinc. Almost all zinc and cadmium mined in the U.S. is exported to foreign smelters as ore concentrate. We estimate that the bulk of cadmium consumed in the U.S. economy (similar to 90%) is imported in the form of nickel-cadmium rechargeable batteries. These batteries can be divided into the larger wet-cells and portable rechargeable b
atteries (PRB). The collection rate for the recycling of large wet cells was found to be high (80%) while the collection rate for PRBs is low (5-20%). The Rechargeable Battery Recycling Corporation (RBRC) is responsible for the collection of these batteries which are recycled exclusively by the International Materials Reclamation Company (INMETCO). The remaining PRBs are generally disposed of in,municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills. This study provides a detailed substance flow analysis of U.S. stocks and flows of cadmium in products, however additional research is needed to better quantify the associated exposures and risks. Recommendation and Perspective. Based on our analysis, we make four recommendations. First we suggest that if cadmium is to be used, it should be used in long-lived products that can be easily collected and recycled with minimal losses. Second, continued cadmium use should be coupled with renewed efforts on the part of policy-makers to encourage the collection and recycling of cadmium-bearing products. At present, consumers do not see the environmental cost associated with the proper disposal of the cadmium content of NiCd batteries. Policy options for improving recycling rates include collecting deposits and providing rewards for the return of spent batteries, taxing or otherwise discouraging discarding PRBs in municipal solid waste, and providing incentives for extended producer responsibility. Third, we highlight the importance of the connection between zinc mining and the supply of cadmium in designing an effective policy to manage the risks associated with cadmium. Fourth, we recommend that policy measures be taken to provide the necessary data required to improve our understanding of the flow of cadmium into the U.S. in the form of product imports and the amount of cadmium lost or disposed of by recycling processes.Goal, Scope and Background. The goal of the present paper is to demonstrate how environmental product declarations (EPDs) are developed based on a set of product category rules (PCRs) in accordance with the requirements in the ISO 14025-standard. This is demonstrated by examples from the furniture industry in Norway, where several case models are evaluated. To ease the capability of developing EPDs in this industry, a database with specific environmental data for materials in furniture is developed. The database is used to produce the LCA for selected furniture models, and further, the database is the backbone of a data-assistance tool used to create the EPDs. Methods. The LCA-data are produced based on traditional LCA-methodology. The PCR is based on a stakeholder analysis and the proposed methodology in the ISO 14025-standard. The EPDs developed so far, are results of close collaboration between companies and research centres in the Nordic Countries. For the verification of the EPDs, auditing methodologies are used as a part of the audit of the companies' environmental management systems (EMS). Results and Conclusion. Based on a hearing of a set of suggested PCRs, a consensus document for seating accommodation is developed. This is further the model for how to develop PCR-documents for all types of furniture, for example sleeping accommodations. Likewise, the database shall contain the most important data for the parts of a furniture model. Within the goal of the project period, EPDs will be devel
oped for 80% of Norwegian furniture. The verification of the EPDs is done as a part of the certification procedures of EMS in accordance with the ISO 14001. Recommendation and Perspective. The results presented in the paper are mainly for the pilot models in the project. However, the results will be further tested and the data-tool will be developed as a part of a product design tool where environmental requirements will be combined with quality requirements. The product design tool will be implemented in the furniture industry. Information on how to use EPDs in public purchasing will also be a part of future work.Goal and Scope. The goal of this study is to explore the potentials and limitations of using LCA as the basis for setting ecolabelling criteria in developing countries. The practicality of using LCA for this purpose, as required by ISO 14020, has been criticised as lacking in transparency and scientific rigour. Furthermore, ecolabelling is not widespread in developing countries. The application of LCA has therefore been illustrated by using the specific case of shrimp aquaculture in Thailand, as a basis for ecolabelling criteria for a typical product intended for export from a developing country. Method. For the LCA case study, the functional unit is the standard consumer-package size, containing 1.8 kg of frozen shrimp produced by conventional intensive aquaculture in Thailand, subject to an appropriate environmental management system. The impact assessment method used in this study is CML 2 Baseline 2000. Results. According to the results from the LCA study, farming appears to be the key life cycle stage generating the most significant environmental impacts: abiotic depletion and global warming, which arise mainly from the use of energy; and eutrophication caused by wastewater discharged from the shrimp ponds. It is possible to cover these impacts by quantitative ecolabelling criteria. Other important impacts could not be quantified by the LCA: depletion of wild shrimp broodstock, impacts of trawling on marine biodiversity and the choice of suitable farm sites. These impacts, which are also related to the farming stage, must be covered by 'hurdle criteria'. Conclusions and Recommendations. For the present case, LCA provides a basis for quantifying a number of important ecolabelling criteria related to the use of abiotic resources and to emissions. Other important issues, connected with the use of biotic natural resources and land, are not quantifiable by current LCA methodology, but were also revealed and clarified by using an LCA framework for the analysis. Thus, focussing the assessment on life cycle considerations, as required by ISO 14024, was effective in identifying all key environmental issues. In the light of this case study, main limitations and barriers associated with the application of LCA to setting ecolabelling criteria particularly in developing countries are discussed, including recommendations on how to overcome them.Goal, Scope and Background. The objective of this study was to assess environmental impacts of Norwegian cod fishing and salmon farming and compare these with chicken farming in order to find reference levels for environmental performance and identify problem areas and potentials for improvements. Methods. A Life Cycle Screening following the production of 0.2 kg fillets as a functional unit throu
gh the respective food chains is performed for all 3 products. The analysis is partly quantitative and qualitative focusing on energy use, antifouling and land use impacts. Case studies are performed to investigate potentials for improvements within the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Results and Conclusions. It can be concluded that the fishing phase for the cod and the feeding phase for both salmon and chicken dominate for all environmental impacts considered. Chicken is most energy effective followed by salmon and cod, which are almost on the same level. The area of sea floor affected by bottom trawling is around 100 times larger than the land area needed to produce the chicken feed for production of the 0.2 kg fillet. The case studies show potentials for improvement of environmental performance, both for salmon farming and cod fishing, especially when it comes to energy use. The environmental impacts on the sea floor imposed by bottom trawling are not fully explored, but based on the precautionary principle a reasonable conclusion is that bottom trawls with less impact on the sea floor should be developed. Recommendation and Perspective. LCA methods have initially been developed for land based industrial applications. More effort should be given to adapt these to fishing applications in order to obtain more accurate assessment of environmental impacts from seafood products. It is recommended to put more emphasis in finding improved indicators for impacts imposed by over-fishing, fuel emission from combustion at sea, use of antifouling and seafloor ecosystem disturbance.Goal, Scope and Background. This article presents the main results from a PhD dissertation about environmental impacts from Danish fish products. The focus is on LCA results for flatfish, but the article also gives an overview of screenings of other fish species. Furthermore, it includes an analysis of the energy consumption in the fishing stage - as a function of fish species and fishing methods. Alternative impact categories that have not been included in the quantitative LCA and policy perspectives are elaborated in the discussion part of the paper. Methods. The study represents a consequential LCA approach (opposed to attributional) and the functional unit is one kg consumed flat fish filet in units,of 300 gram (cardboard boxes). Data are obtained from statistics, interviews, literature, and databases - mainly ETHESU 96 and the Danish LCA food database. The EDIP 97 method has been applied for life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) and the results have been verified by Ecoindicator 99. Results. The results of the flatfish LCA show that the fishing stage has the largest impact potential for the investigated impact categories. This is mainly due to a relatively high fuel consumption and significant emissions of biocides from anti-fouling agents (contributing to ecological toxicity). But large reductions in fuel intensity (fuel consumption per kg caught fish) can be obtained by changing the type of fishing gear - particularly in flatfish fisheries. The consumption and retail stages represent significant impact potentials as well, while processing is insignificant. LCA screenings of other fish species show the same picture, but there are cases (herring, mackerel and mussels) where the fishing stage is less important, while the opposite is the case for processing - mainl
y due to energy intensive packaging materials. Discussion. A limited number of impact categories have been investigated, but a 'qualitative' LCA, focusing on other fishery specific impacts, emphasises that the fishing stage is indeed the overall most important. In this regard, it is argued that fuel requirements in many cases are proportional to environmental impacts related to 'discard' and 'seafloor damage'. Hence, it is worth focusing on energy for many reasons. In a policy context, it is a paradox that mainly the fish processing industry has been subjected to environmental regulations. Recommendation and Perspective. Future scenarios indicate that energy consumption will remain one of the most important environmental aspects in the fishing stage - partly due to regulations of antifouling biocides (e.g. TBT) and partly because of the continued depletion of fish stocks. From an environmental policy perspective, it is therefore recommended to broaden the perspective of existing fishery regulations and increase the focus on fishing gear and energy in the primary production (fishing stage).The development, state-of-the-art and application of exergy concept to sustainability are discussed. Thermodynamic indicators, based on exergy, are proposed for the design and optimisation of energy systems. Efficiency of energy systems is determined using energy and exergy. This paper presents a methodology study of thermodynamic indicators for integrated sustainability assessment and its application to geotechnic system analysis. Information, obtained from thermodynamic indicators, is proposed to be used for managing the natural resources and reducing the environmental degradation caused by interaction between an energy system and environment. Life cycle analysis on the basis of exergy flow calculations is considered for assessment of total environmental impact on all stages of energy system life cycle. Integrated exergetic assessment, based on exergy analysis and thermoeconomics, is recommended for comparisons of alternative technical solutions and decision making for energy system design. Application of thermoeconomics to sustainable buildings is examined.The paper presents the methods and results of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) applied to the production of maize grain from a conventional variety compared with maize grain from a variety genetically modified to be herbicide tolerant and insect protected and to contain an enhanced oil and lysine content, and its impact when fed to broiler chickens. The findings show that there are both environmental and human health benefits of growing GM maize including lower impacts on global warming, ozone depletion, freshwater ecotoxicity and human toxicity. However, when considered in terms of the use of maize as a feed input to broiler chicken production, the benefits of the GM alternative become negligible compared to the use of conventional maize.The environmental impact of the tanning industry is generally significant with outputs of wastes, i.e. high concentrations of organics, salts and heavy metals (chromium compounds), both in solid and liquid form, as a result. In order to bring the tanning industry more in line with present environmental thinking, various methods have been devised to reduce impacts. The underlying study proposes a modification of the method for unhairing-liming of hides where the unhair
ing-liming liquids are reused several times after being recharged by reduced quantities of chemicals. The study, therefore, aims at reducing both the economic and environmental costs of the unhairing-liming process. Experiments were carried out at lab scale with a simulation apparatus designed for the purpose. Life cycle assessment was used to evaluate the net environmental benefits of the modified method. The present value approach was used to evaluate the economic feasibility of the modified method. The quality of the produced leather was assessed by experts from the tanning sector (tanners). On the environmental level, the modified method reduced the environmental impact of the process by 24%, COD was reduced by 50% as well as sulfide which was reduced by 73% when the process water was recycled four times. The modified method requires some investment in new equipment and is a little more labor intensive as compared with the conventional method but does permit for savings in water up to 58% and chemicals up to 28% as well as wastewater treatment cost which was reduced by 58%. The modified method allowed for four times reuse of the unhairing-liming liquor without visibly affecting the quality of the final product of leather. It was concluded that both the economic and the environmental costs of the unhairing-liming process were reduced relative to the same of the conventional method. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A new method is proposed for the identification of environmental impact category weights using a panel approach and a Multi-Criteria Decision Aid (MCDA) for use within the weighting step in Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA). Seven environmental criteria were assessed by panellists and weights were obtained. The weighting factors of 10 impact categories were calculated according to a four-step procedure: (1) criteria definition; (2) scoring of each impact category (scale of 1-100, 100 causing the most damage) according to seven environmental criteria (human health, ecosystem health, resource consumption as well as scale, duration, reversibility and "distance-to-target") by a panel of Canadian citizens; (3) assessment of each criterion's importance using a "resistance to change" approach; and (4) criteria aggregation (through MCDA) which allowed the calculation of a final weighting score for each impact category. The greatest advantage of this procedure is the case with which it can be implemented in a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study whatever the LCIA method is used. Integrating weighting factors specific to the Canadian environmental context into a site-dependant LCIA method will contribute to the progress of LCA in Canada. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Two experiences related to pollution prevention (P2) curricula are described: An active learning course in environmental engineering (EE) for ChE students, and the development of "modules" for pollution prevention in an international mobility program. The first is approached in collaborative learning oriented to pollution prevention through process and product analysis and life cycle assessment; the second attempts to design and develop up to 17 modules around process integration tools in an exchange program involving eight institutions from three countries of North America, some 12 professors and up to 42 students. Modules support in-class and distan
ce learning using a web-based platform. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.It is common practise in mining Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies to use a predefined set of data to represent mining production systems. Besides this, very little is added to improve data quality, and essential mining process details which affect the ultimate environmental impacts is rarely taken into account. Some significant omissions include exploration and development work, mining method used, production, ore losses, location and the mining/processing method dependent factors that govern the nature of discharges to the environment. The mining system is often represented as a black-box, not lending itself to the interpretation of different processes used in minerals production. The generic data used are often inadequate for a mining LCA, and cannot be used as an accurate account of mining environmental burdens contributing to more complex systems "down-stream", such as metals, building, chemical or food industries. Therefore, the main objective of the mining LCA model presented in this paper was to develop a tool that is able to represent the mining system in a comprehensive way. To attain this objective, the mining system was studied in more detail. as it is commonly practised during mine feasibility and design stages. It (LICYMIN) was developed as part of an international research project led by Imperial College London. The model integrates the mine production, processing, waste treatment and disposal, rehabilitation and aftercare stages of a mine's life within an LCA framework. The development work was carried out in collaboration with several industrial partners in Europe, including Bakonyi Bauxitbanya Kft. in Hungary. The model structure, database development and examples of field applications from industrial sites are presented. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Mexico ranks among the I I major producer countries of minerals worldwide; its open pit and underground systems arc 500 years old. This paper presents an overview of the Mexican mining industry from technological development, historical and economic perspectives. The efforts made by mining companies to address issues or environmental management and sustainable development expressed in national and international frameworks, as well as the Mexican environmental regulatory framework for the mining sector, are analyzed. Since, among others, life cycle assessment (LCA) has been recognized as a key topic to promote sustainable development in the Latin American and Caribbean region, this paper also examines the application of LCA in mining. Two life cycle approaches are presented: a national life cycle inventory for base metals, and an integral life cycle model for the management of mining processes. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper underlines and debates the importance of developing specific guidelines and checklist per product typology, as tools to make eco-efficient design become a reality. The argumentation is accompanied by the description of a project commissioned by the NECTA Vending Solutions (the European leader of drinks & food vending machines) to the DIS research unit (Design and Innovation for environmental Sustainability, Politecnico di Milano University - The DIS research unit of Politecnico di Milano University is offering, since 10 years, applied r
esearches and company consulting on Life Cycle Design and eco-efficiency improvement. Typical consulting activities are: Life Cycle Assessment; handbook for LCD and eco-efficient product, service and product-service system development; procedure and tools to integrate environmental requirements into company existing product, service and product-service system development process; courses on LCD), resulting in such tools, currently integrated into the company product development process. The considerations are based upon on primary data and experiences. The final results of this project are two handbooks of guidelines and checklists for the eco-efficient development of two types of vending machines: one for Snack & Food (spirals model), the other for Hot & Cold drinks. In order to achieve these results an LCA has been developed and a system to prioritize guidelines has been adopted; this system has led to a procedure which moves from general to specific guidelines and checklist. Finally these tools have been integrated within the company procedure. The method adopted by DIS in this applied research is described, highlighting the observed key success factors in a project between a University research unit and a company. Final considerations expand upon the matured experiences to demonstrate the importance and efficacy to go from general methods and tools to more specific ones (e.g. specific guidelines and checklist), in order to implement Life Cycle Design principles, in the real company practices and culture. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Eco-design tools ought to be made more useful, so that they become effectively used in companies to support improvements of product systems. This article discusses the interconnections between environmental analysis and integrative cooperation in the product development processes. The study focuses on two different assessment tools, life cycle assessment (LCA) and environmental effect analysis (EEA), in three different combined uses. The discussion of the Eco-design methods focuses on integration in product development processes considering the relation to a product competitiveness perspective. The interviews indicate that the interconnection of methods is important as a key to real transformation of design practices. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Researchers have found that some system design activities for users are effective in terms of satisfaction and commitment (13), user involvement and user attitude (12) and performance (12, 13). As Markus and Mao (19) suggest, activities in different stages of the life cycle and participants should be clearly defined and studied. Many researchers (7, 16, 20, 30) suggest that user participation in the analysis stage should be more important to system success than user participation in the design stage. Most of these studies have focused only on those project team members who have been assigned formal responsibility within the project scope instead of on the operational users who have no formal responsibility within the project scope but their work life will be affected by the system. The relative contribution of operational end user participation, in the different stages has, to date, not been empirically investigated. This study reports the results of a laboratory experiment to investigate the impact of operational end user participation
 in two important stages of the system development life cycle: analysis and design on perceived participation, intention to use, process satisfaction and perceived ownership. There were 210 students from 3 universities in the United States who voluntarily participated in this experiment. The General Linear Model and a Structural Equation Modeling technique were used to analyze the data collected to test the hypotheses. The major findings indicate that when users are not assigned any formal project development responsibility, user participation and desire to participate still has a significant influence on perceived participation and perceived participation has a significant influence on intention to use, process satisfaction and perceived ownership. In both stages, users perceiving higher participation perceived higher process satisfaction, ownership, and intention to use than users who perceived lower participation. Further, user participation in the analysis activities led to higher, but not significant perceived participation than user participation in the design activities. This study showed preliminary evidence that after meaningful participation in one stage of analysis or design activities, further material participation in other stages may not be necessary to promote user satisfaction with the process. The results of this study suggest a basis for resource allocation with regard to end user participation in systems development projects.The problems of overproduction within the European Union countries and the environmental impact of agriculture have lead to the introduction of schemes that aim to reduce both. Beef (Bos taurus) production forms a large component of the Irish agricultural industry and accounts for more than one quarter of agricultural economic output. Recently, the European CAP (Common Agricultural Policy) has been re-evaluated to include supplementary measures that encompass the environmental role of agriculture rather titan just the production role. A life cycle assessment (LCA) method was adopted to estimate emissions per kilogram of CO, equivalent per kilogram of live weight (LW) leaving the farm gate per annum (kg CO2 kg(-1) LW yr(-1)) and per hectare (kg CO2 ha(-1) yr(-1)). Fifteen units engaged in suckler-beef production (five conventional, five in an Irish agri-environmental scheme, and five organic units) were evaluated for emissions per unit product and area. The average emissions from the conventional units were 13.0 kg CO2 kg(-1) LW yr(-1), from the agri-environmental scheme units 12.2 kg CO2 kg(-1) LW yr(-1), and from the organic units 11.1 kg CO2 kg LW yr(-1). The average emissions per unit area from the conventional units was 5346 kg CO, ha(-1) yr(-1), from the agri-environmental scheme units 4372 kg CO2 ha(-1) yr(-1), and from the organic units 2302 kg CO2 ha(-1) yr(-1). Results indicated that moving toward extensive production could reduce emissions per unit product and area but live weight production per hectare would be reduced.This paper presents a model that is developed to optimize the selection and operation of energy systems in commercial buildings based on their environmental performance. The model can be used for decision support regarding infrastructure in both design and operation of building energy systems. The approach is composed of energy simulation to generate building's energy deman
d, life cycle assessment (LCA) to model different energy systems, and optimization model to optimize the selection and operation of these energy systems. The energy systems that are discussed in this paper are cogeneration systems, average electric grid, gas boilers, and absorption and electric chillers. The performance criteria presented in this paper are primary energy consumption (PEC) and tropospheric ozone precursor potential (TOPP).Carotenoid pigments are widely used as feed additives in the poultry sector and in salmonid and crustacean aquaculture. In these applications the egg, skin or flesh of the target species are pigmented in order to improve marketability. The poultry feed producer is able to Source these carotenoids (or indeed, xanthophylls) either from chemical synthesis or from processed plant materials. This study examined the ecological impact of the application of chemically synthesized pigments and their plant-derived Counterparts. A cradle-to-grave assessment, studying all aspects of the production chain, revealed that the products derived through synthetic chemistry had the least impact on the environment.Product sustainability approaches, such as life cycle assessment (LCA) and life cycle costing (LCC), are becoming increasingly critical to influence product decisions tor all lifecycle stages. However, LCA and LCC methods must be integrated into the product lifecycle processes for sharing their data semantics with other applications in order to support decisions in the technical, ecological and economic aspects of products. Semantics sharing has raised big challenges in understanding and interpreting the intended meaning of LCA, LCC and other product data. This paper presents an ontology-driven, standard-based approach to the explicit capture and reuse of product data semantics for heterogeneous information sharing across lifecycle processes in computer aided design, quality assurance, LCA and LCC analysis, and product development process management. The approach incorporates object-based product data modeling, interoperability standardization, and ontology engineering to address the product data semantics sharing issues. A software implementation of the approach with a use scenario is also discussed in the paper.DaimlerChrysler plans to replace the current paint shop of the rear axles by a new one. It is the goal to design the new paint shop representing the latest technology for paint shops and overspray handling and to consider ecological, technical and economic aspects from a life cycle perspective during the design process. Therefore the Life Cycle Engineering approach (LCE) has been chosen to give a broad view and compare the different. options. The application of LCE within the design phase has shown that the reaction time for feedback is reasonable for designers and therefore it can be applied within the planning of new production facilities. The LCE study showed that there is no direct relation between the economic cost and the ecological performance of a design option. While all considered recycling systems have better economics than the options considered at the present time that allow energy recovery of the collected overspray, there is no general preference regarding pro/contra recycling from an ecological point of view.Fuel cells have the potential to offer an alternative propulsion system to conventia
l internal combustion engines used in transportation at the present time. As a result fuel cells may provide consumers a cleaner and more efficient technology. Fuel cells are powered with hydrogen fuel which can be produced from various energy sources, which include renewable sources of energy or conventional fossil fuel. Thus, the emerging hydrogen infrastructure needs to be addressed carefully. A consortium of industries, research institutes and several European cities launched the EU-project CUTE (Clean Urban Transport in Europe), whose aim is not only to develop and demonstrate 30 fuel cell busses and the accompanying infrastructure in 10 European cities, but also assess the environmental impacts. Within the project scope the potential of fuel cell powered transport systems for reducing environmental influences such as greenhouse effect, improving the quality of the atmosphere and conserving fossil resources is assessed. This first large scale test run of fuel cell transportation systems is the best possible information base to give real life numbers about environmental impacts of a fuel cell system including hydrogen used as fuel. Meanwhile the use of hydrogen fuel is mostly considered as environmentally friendly. However, a statement about the actual environmental impacts is only possible by regarding the entire Life Cycle of the hydrogen, which includes its production and use. Within CUTE different routes of the hydrogen production have been assessed: hydrogen production via electrolysis and steam reforming, considering different boundary conditions, e.g. country specific energy production/supply, different ways for electricity production (e.g. wind power, geothermal energy etc.) etc. This presentation will show the environmental footprint of these routes (Life Cycle Assessment results), which enable the comparison of the environmental impacts of the different hydrogen production routes and the transportation system considering the total life cycle, (production of FC bus, operation and end of life) along with diesel and natural gas as "conventional" fuels for bus operation.The integration of environmental, social, and economic (ESE) objectives into business decisions and future planning is the path towards sustainable development. The goal of this paper is to address the environmental component of sustainable development within the automotive industry based on the Life Cycle Analysis and Well-to-Wheels approach. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is very relevant for making the concept of environmental sustainability operational because environmental impacts have to be examined from a 'cradle-to-grave' perspective. Life cycle analysis is an analytical tool that quantifies energy consumption and emissions associated with the raw material extraction, processing of materials, manufacturing, use phase, and end-of-life (reuse, recycling, and disposal) of products. The potential impact of current production and consumption patterns, on the future availability of non-renewable resources, can also be evaluated within the LCA framework. Thus, LCA provides an effective way for industry to support better management of natural resources, in order to maximize economic benefits and minimize environmental burdens. Well-to-Wheel (WtW) analysis is a subset of a complete LCA because it quantifies the environmental burdens associated only with the fuel produc
tion and its consumption during the driving time of a vehicle. Well-to-Wheel studies mainly provide energy use and air emissions inventories. This paper provides the results obtained from two major studies conducted at General Motors R&D Center. The first is a LCA study that assesses the environmental emissions associated with four alternative automotive paint processes and seven different paint formulations. The second is a WtW study that addresses 18 different combinations of alternative fuels and vehicle engines. Considering that the use phase of the vehicle contributes more than 80% of its life cycle energy consumption, and that the automotive paint process is the most energy intensive component of the manufacturing phase in any given vehicle, the results presented in this paper are noteworthy for environmental sustainability considerations relevant to the automotive industry.A systematic study of current European electricity and heat systems performed in the frame of the Swiss LCA project ecoinvent was extended to a few new technologies and used as a basis for comparison and ranking using External Costs Assessment and one selected Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) method. The energy systems include full process chains from extraction of resources through waste disposal. The external costs from airborne emissions were estimated using the most recent findings of the ExternE series on the average damage factors for Europe. Current fossil electricity systems exhibit the highest LCIA scores as well as the. highest external costs, unless greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) are valued very low (sensitivity) and advanced technologies are applied. Alpine hydropower always exhibits the lowest score. Environmental performance of current renewables is generally better than fossil but LCIA ranking for wind and PV may worsen when increased importance is attributed to abiotic resource depletion. Wood cogeneration has a relatively poor score compared to other renewables. Nuclear shows generally good environmental performance, unless the high radioactive wastes are given subjectively high negative value. For heating systems, oil has higher external costs than natural gas, with conventional wood in between. External costs of heat pumps strongly depend on the origin of the electricity supplied. Sensitivity analyses were performed for external costs to reflect uncertainties of impacts and variations in monetary valuation. Fossils remain worst performers. External costs of nuclear remain low. Using allocation by exergy, electricity by diesel and natural gas cogeneration ranks worse than oil and natural gas combined cycle, respectively, and never better than renewables or nuclear.The front cover of Motorola cellular phone housings were ground to the same size as original particles prior to use by a knife mill. The mixtures contained 15.2 wt% metals, 1.9 wt% foams, 1.4 wt% rubbers and 81.4 wt% thermoplastics where the major component was a polycarbonate (PC)/acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) blend. The separation of the thermoplastic scraps was performed using the sink-float process in water and salt solution. The impact modification of all housing containing six thermoplastic parts was carried out by the addition of a polyolefin elastomer called as the functionalized polyethylene (PE). Unprinted glass fiber reinforced epoxy circuit boards were size reduc
ed and pulverized using the knife mill and hammer mill. The ground epoxy circuit boards were then classified with a set of testing sieves using Gyro sifter, and their mean diameters were calculated by means of particle size distribution analysis. Izod impact strengths at two temperatures, tensile tests, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) on the fracture surfaces, and dynamic mechanical spectroscopy were performed to characterize the alloys and mixtures compounded by a batch mixer and a twin screw extruder.Together with 11 European and US photovoltaic companies an extensive effort has been made to collect Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) data that represents the status of production technology for crystalline silicon modules for the year 2004. These data can be used to evaluate the environmental impacts of photovoltaic solar energy systems. The new data covers all processes from silicon feedstock production via wafer- and cell- to module manufacturing. All commercial wafer technologies are covered, i.e multi- and monocrystalline wafers as well as ribbon technologies. For monocrystalline silicon wafer production further improvement of the data quality is recommended.Together with a number of PV companies an extensive effort has been made to collect Life Cycle Inventory data that represents the current status of production technology for crystalline silicon modules. The new data cover all processes from silicon feedstock production to cell and module manufacturing. All commercial wafer technologies are covered, that is multi- and monocrystalline wafers as well as ribbon technology. The presented data should be representative for the technology status in 2004, although for monocrystalline Si crystallisation further improvement of the data quality is recommended. On the basis of the new data it is shown that c-Si PV systems are in a good position to compete with other energy technologies. Energy Pay-Back Times of 1.7-2.7 yr are found for South-European locations, while life-cycle CO2 emissions are in the 30-46 g/kWh range. Clear perspectives exist for further improvements of roughly 40-50%.The life cycle of the thin film CdTe PV modules in the U.S. have been investigated based on materials and energy inventories for a commercial 25 MW/yr production plant. The energy payback times (EPBT) of these modules are 0.75 years and the GHG emissions are 18 gCO(2). eq/kWh for average U.S. solar irradiation conditions. Adding the impact of an optimized ground-level balance of system (BOS), result in a total EPBT of 1.2 years and total life-cycle GHG emissions of 24 gCO(2).eq/kWh.Since June 2003 Deutsche Solar AG is operating a recycling plant for modules with crystalline solar silicon cells. The aim of the process is to recover the silicon wafers so that they can be reprocessed and integrated in modules again. The aims of the Life Cycle Analysis of the mentioned process are (i) the verification if the process is beneficial regarding environmental aspects, (ii) the comparison to other end-of-life scenarios, (iii) the ability to include the end-of-life phase of modules in future LCA of photovoltaic modules. The results show that the recycling process makes good ecological sense, because the environmental burden during the production phase of reusable components is higher than the burden due to the recycling process. Moreover the Energy Pay Back Time of modules wi
th recycled cells was determined.The development of a hydrogen infrastructure has been identified as a key barrier to implementing hydrogen as for a future transportation fuel. Several recent studies of hydrogen infrastructure have assessed near-term and long-term alternatives for hydrogen supply. In this paper, we discuss how improvements in current hydrogen storage technologies could change how a future hydrogen infrastructure is designed. Using a simplified engineering/economic model for hydrogen infrastructure design and cost, we explore some potential impacts of near-term advances in storage performance and cost, in terms of system design, cost, energy use, and greenhouse gas emissions. We find that the characteristics of hydrogen storage play a major role in the design, cost, energy use, and CO2 emissions of hydrogen supply infrastructure.Aspects of the hydrogen economy are addressed by quantifying impacts and costs associated with a hydrogen-based energy infrastructure. It is recommended that hydrogen (H-2) is produced from Solar Thermochemical (STC) Cycles and Wind Electrolysis, with the possible use of Steam Methane Reforming (SMR) to aid in the creation of a hydrogen infrastructure. Despite high impact assessment results from SimaPro, the external costs associated with Biomass gasification are shown to be comparable with those for Wind Electrolysis. Thus, biomass-produced hydrogen could also be a viable alternative, especially in areas ideally suited to the growth of energy crops. Finally, the most influential life cycle stages are the Manufacturing of the FCV and Hydrogen Production (except for the environmentally benign wind electrolysis). For the Wind/Electrolysis case, the majority of impacts come from plant construction.The majority of the world energy consumption is derived from fossil fuels. Furthermore, the United States (US) consumption of petroleum vastly exceeds its production, with the majority of petroleum being consumed in the transportation sector. The increasing dependency on foreign fuel resources in conjunction with the severe environmental impacts of a petroleum-based society dictates that alternative renewable energy resources be developed. The US Department of Energy's (DOE'S) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy and the Office of Basic Energy Sciences are currently promoting a vehicular hydrogen-based energy economy. However, none of the current on-board storage technologies are suitable for practical and safe deployment. Significant scientific advancement is therefore still required if a viable on-board storage technology is to be developed. A detailed discussion of the benefits of transitioning to a hydrogen-powered automotive fleet as well as the tremendous technical hurdles faced for the development of an on-board hydrogen storage system are provided here. A novel class of theoretically predicted nanostructured materials that could revolutionize hydrogen storage materials is also presented.This paper presents a framework for guiding the design of new materials to enhance the sustainability of systems that utilize these materials throughout their production, use and retirement. Traditionally, materials engineering has focused on the interplay between material microstructure, physical properties, processing, and performance. Environmental impacts related to the system's life cycle are not well
 integrated into the materials engineering process. To address this shortcoming, a new methodology has been developed that incorporates social, economic, and environmental indicators - the three dimensions of sustainability. The proposed framework accomplishes this task and provides a critical tool for use across a broad class of materials and applications. Material properties strongly shape and control sustainability performance throughout each life cycle stage including materials production, manufacturing, use and end-of-life management. Key material parameters that influence life cycle energy, emissions, and costs are highlighted. The proposed framework is demonstrated in the design of engineered cementitious composites, which are materials being developed for civil infrastructure applications including bridges, roads, pipe and buildings. This research is part of an NSF MUSES (Materials Use: Science, Engineering and Society) Biocomplexity project on sustainable concrete infrastructure materials and systems (http://sci.umich.edu).This paper presents information regarding a comparative life cycle assessment (LCA), including scenario and data uncertainty, based on a hypothetical drink product for which we evaluate three main container material alternatives: (1) a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle; (2) an aluminum can; and (3) a polylactide (PLA) bottle. The scope of results included energy, water use and two characterized impacts are included: global warming potential (GAP) and ozone depletion potential (ODP). The results presented in this study demonstrate that LCI parameter uncertainty seems to have a dominant effect in the outcome of the LCA results considered. Indeed, in most cases there is overlap in the uncertainty intervals (at 95% confidence level), indicating that the three systems under study appear to have similar indicator values, at least with regard to the environmental indicators included here.Over the years considerable research has been conducted on masonry mortars regarding their compatibility with under restoration structures. The environmental dimension of these materials may sometimes be a prohibitive factor in the selection of these materials. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a tool that can be used to assess the environmental impact of the materials. LCA can be a very useful tool in the decision making for the selection of appropriate restoration structural material. In this work, a comparison between traditional type of mortars and modern ones (cement-based) is attempted. Two mortars of traditional type are investigated: with aerial lime binder, with aerial lime and artificial pozzolanic additive and one with cement binder. The LCA results indicate that the traditional types of mortars are more sustainable compared to cement-based mortars. For the impact assessment, the method used is Eco-indicator 95.The front covers of Motorola cellular phone housings, which were composed of 62.2 wt% of polycarbonate (PC)/acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS), were ground and separated from the undesired materials using sink-float methods. The sink-float methods in water and salt were used to remove the floating materials such as the adhesive strips and the foams, and to separate the metal parts where the recovery ratios were 92.8 and 40.5%, respectively. The separation of residual wires and button rubbers, which could not be
 done by the sink-float process in water, was preformed using V-Stat Triboelectric Separator (Outokumpu Technology) of a roll separator that also provided the effective methods to separate the ground metals that had existed in the printed circuit boards where the recovery weight ratio of metal parts was 19 wt%. The separated PC/ABS's could be compounded with the ground circuit boards or the thermoplastic elastomer called Engage (R), or the reactive species of glycidyl methacrylate (GMA).The concept of life cycle assessment (LCA) is build upon the object of assessment, namely the functional unit, i.e. all impacts ete. are related to a specific service or function in the society. In a LCA context, the assessment of emerging technologies like Nanotechnology is challenging due to a number of knowledge gaps. It may not be known exactly what is the function (or functional unit) or what the technology may substitute and production may still be at an experimental level, raising questions about technology or materials choice. For prospective LCA studies methodologies like "consequential LCA" may be useful because future changes are taken into account. However, it still does not suffice for emerging technologies. In a recent "Green Technology Foresight" project a methodology was developed based on five elements: Life-cycle thinking, systems approach, a broad dialogue based understanding of the environment, precaution as a principle and finally, prevention as preferred strategy. When assessing emerging technologies three levels should be considered. First order effects are connected directly to production, use and disposal. Second order are effects from interaction with other parts of the economy from more intelligent design and management of processes, products, services, product chains etc. and the effect on the stocks of products. An example could be dematerialisation. Rebound effects may be considered as third order effects, like when efficiency gains stimulate new demands, which balances or overcompensates the savings.With the passage of the National Nanoscale Initiative in 2001 there has been increasing attentionand funding given to nanomaterial research. This has led to a number of new materials developed at the nanoscale (< 100 nm) level, which often possess chemical and physical properties distinct from those of their bulk materials. These unique qualities are proving to be quite useful in a number of new applications. For example, biological applications in imaging, treatment, and drug delivery are particularly promising as well as the increasing engineering potential of nanocircuitry and materials science. As the number of applications increases however, so too does the potential for human exposure to nanomaterials through a number of routes: dermal, ingestion, inhalation, and even injection. Interestingly, some of the properties of these nanomaterials that make them useful in these emerging technologies are the same properties that can increase their toxic potential. This is leading to an emerging discipline nanotoxicology, which can be defined as safety evaluation of engineered nanostructures and nanodevices. Nanotoxicology research will not only provide information for risk assessment of nanomaterials based on data for hazard identification, dose response relationships and biokinetics, but will also help to further advance the field of
 nanoresearch by providing information to alter undesirable nanomaterials properties. Although nanotoxicology is in its infancy, there are some preliminary studies with newly developed materials that provide some insight into potential effects, which when coupled with older studies provides information on how these nanomaterials impact the biological system. The following text summarizes results of studies with nanosized particles with a focus on the respiratory system and skin as portals of entry. The ability of particles to trauslocate from their site of entry, their ability to elicit biological responses, and their presumed mechanisms of action will be highlighted. This will be an attempt to illustrate how pervasive these materials can be, which may or may not be detrimental. With proper toxicological assessment this potential may be harnessed leading to breakthroughs at the nanotechnology-biology interface.There are numerous potential environmental risks of engineered nanoparticles that are not yet well-characterized or understood. Nanoparticles may be introduced into aquatic environments during production processes and also as a result of release following their use in electronic and biological applications. The objectives of these studies were to characterize the behavior of quantum dots (QD) in water, and the accumulation of and toxicity to potential biological receptors in aquatic ecosystems. There are natural differences in environmental factors that may affect the degradation rates of QD's as well as their toxicity, including temperature, salinity, and pH conditions. To assess the responses under different pH conditions, nonfunctionalized QD's composed of a Cd/Se core surrounded by a ZnS shell (Evident Technologies) were added to distilled water, at pHs of 4, 6, and 8, and the changes in fluorescent emission spectra over time were determined. Likewise, to determine the effects of salinity on degradation rates, QD's were added to 0.22 filtered seawater samples of different salinities (10, 20, and 30 parts per thousand). The accumulation and potential toxicity of QD's were evaluated using hepatopancreas cells of oysters, Crassostrea virginica. Fluorescent spectroscopy studies with water and cell samples indicated some degradation in low pH and high salinity waters, but did not indicate that there was increased degradation of QD's accumulated in cells. Fluorescent confocal microscopy verified that QD's were accumulated into the hepatopancreas cells. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies verified cellular accumulation, and also indicated some limited degradation of the QD's by the cells over the short time periods (e.g. hours) used in these preliminary studies. Using a lysosomal destabilization assay, there was some evidence of toxicity to hepatopancreatic cells. These kinds of basic studies are essential for characterizing potential cellular toxicity and addressing the potential impacts of nanoengineered particles on aquatic organisms and basic cellular responses.The fuel additive methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) has been used in an effort to improve air quality in the United States, but other undesirable effects, particularly the contamination of water resources, were eventually judged to outweigh any air quality benefits it may have offered. The experience with MTBE offers many lessons, including the need to evaluate p
otential positive and negative environmental impacts associated with fuel choices using a comprehensive approach that combines a product life-cycle perspective with the risk assessment paradigm. Such an approach, referred to as "comprehensive environmental assessment" (CEA), is illustrated here by highlighting some of the issues evaluating reformulated gasoline (RFG) produced with MTBE, ethanol, or no oxygenate.Environmental damage is one of the main justifications for continued efforts to reduce energy consumption and to shift to cleaner sources such as solar energy. In recent years there has been much progress in the analysis of environmental damages, in particular thanks to the Extern-E (External Costs of Energy) Project of the European Commission. This article presents a summary of the methodology and key results for the external costs of the major energy technologies. Even though the uncertainties are large, the results provide substantial evidence that the classical air pollutants (particles, No-x and SOz) from fossil fuels impose significant public health costs, comparable to the cost of global warming from CO2 emissions. The total external costs are relatively low for natural gas (in the range of about 0.5-1 eurocents/kWh for most EU countries), but much higher for coal and lignite (in the range of about 2-6 eurocents/kWh for most EU countries). By contrast, the external. costs of nuclear, wind, and photovoltaics are very low. The external costs of hydro are extremely variable from site to site, and the ones of biomass depend strongly on the specific technologies used and can be quite large for combustion.Purpose - Recycling of non-renewable resources serves both in reducing the consumption of virgin supplies and the discharge of associated residuals back into the natural environment. On the other hand, recycling has been criticized because of its environmental impacts. The aim of the present paper is to identify and quantify the environmental effect of recycling of a glass bottle. Design/methodology/approach - For this purpose, the life cycle assessment polygon framework is being used. This framework has been developed for evaluating the results of a life cycle inventory analysis using critical volume aggregation and polygon-based interpretation. Findings - Recycling strategies can, in most cases, reduce the total environmental burden of the glass container examined. However, this reduction may considerably vary in relation to each " ecological parameter" (consumption of energy, consumption of water, air emissions, waterborne waste and solid waste), depending mainly on the "recycling mix" (the percentage of recycled material used in production and the percentage of product waste that goes for recycling). Research limitations/implications - The extent to which these findings could be generalized to other materials and products could be confirmed by more applications of the framework. Practical implications - This paper may help in developing recycling strategies. Originality/value - A conceptual framework for the environmental evaluation of recycling, considering, not only general recycling targets, but also the particular interests or conditions that may exist, is introduced.Solid Oxide fuel Cells, SOFCs, have attracted worldwide attention from wide applicability in a large-sized power plant, a distributed power supply, and an ef
ficient cogeneration apparatus With extremally high efficiency of power generation. Doped-lanthanum gallate (La(Sr)Ga(Mg)O-3), which has been recently proposed as I new solid electrolyte, replaces Yttria Stabilized Zirconia (YSZ), lowers the operating, temperature of SOFC and then improves the mechanical reliability of the cells. In this Study, the doped-lauthanum gallate was produced by combustion synthesis and its sintering behavior, the electrical conductivity. and life cycle assessment of this process from energy requirement and it carbon dioxide emission were analyzed by comparing with the conventional solid-state method, In the experiments of the combustion synthesis, lanthanum oxide, strontium carbonate, gallium oxide, metallic magnesium, and sodium perchlorate were well mixed with different Substitution ratios of gallium by magnesium: 80. 60, 40, and 30 mole%, by using a hall mill and were ignited at one end of the mixture at nitrogen atmosphere to complete the combustion wave propagation of the exothermic reaction to the other end without any additional energy. As, a result, all of the products, except the 80 mole% magnesium-containing lot, showed definite peaks of intermediates containing lanthanum gallate in X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) patterns. Most significantly, the product containing 30 mole% magnesium. which wits completely sintered at 100 K lower temperature (1673 K) compared to the solid state method (1773 K), showed the highest electrical conductivity, 0.08 Scm(-1) at 1073 K without the dependency of oxygen partial pressure, being almost the same as the world record. The results demonstrated that the combustion synthesis of SOFC electrolyte had the possibility of an innovative production process with several benefits, Such as shortening of processing time, minimizing energy requirement and carbon dioxide emission. and deriving the excellent property of SOFCs.Five popular adhesives of urea resin (UF), melamine-urea cocondensed resin (MUF), phenol resin (PF), phenolresorcinol resin (PRF), and aqueous polymer isocyanate (API) for wood based materials were analyzed by the inventory analysis. It was calculated that energy consumption and emissions of CO2, NOx and SOx for production of 1 kg resin using unit processes from oil drilling for material's production to resin production. It became clear that MUF and PRF consumed the largest amount of energy and exhausted maximum amount of SOx among five adhesives. On the other hand, UF consumed the least energy and exhausted minimum SOx which are equivalent to the range of 57 and 67 percents of those of MUF and PRF, respectively PF and API were recognized to be medium ones among five adhesives analyzed. CO2 and NOx emissions of API were remarkably large in such a condition that these amounts were more than six times as long as other resins. It was highly recommended that environmental loads of an adhesive should be judged by not the weight unit but the functional unit in case of life cycle assessment of wood based materials.Among the many ocean energy technologies under development, the tidal turbine farm has been proposed as an environmentally friendly ocean energy converter application. Although the technology and capital costs of ocean energy turbines are understood, the economics of operating a gang of turbines as an energy farm has yet to be analyzed. In this paper, a planning, ope
ration and maintenance model for tidal turbine farms is proposed. The system is modeled using life-cycle assessment, incorporating a variety of time-dependent variables. Model components include farm construction and planning, operation strategy, regular maintenance, and emergency maintenance. Preliminary numerical simulation results are shown in a case study for a potential site.It is becoming increasingly necessary in life-cycle analysis (LCA) of infrastructure assets, including pavements, to take a longer-term approach than has been used, mainly to ensure sustainability and assess the impacts of today's decisions accurately. LCA can include primarily life-cycle cost analysis (LCCA), but it also can include considerations of resource conservation, environmental impacts, energy balance, and so forth, and it can involve short-, medium-, and long-term periods. It is thus possible to develop a context for LCA of likely and uncertain societal activities, including transportation, over these periods. Conventional LCCA is directed toward comparing competing alternative investment strategies and can involve a range of stakeholders. Of the methods available, present worth of costs is almost exclusively used in the pavement field. However, when medium- to longer-term life-cycle periods are involved, rate-of-return and cost-effectiveness formulations can be applicable. A numerical example shows how an agency can determine the internal rate of return for two investment alternatives involving different pavement designs and a life-cycle period of 50 years. In addition, a cost-effectiveness example is provided for a sidewalk network, again with a life-cycle period of 50 years. Conventional LCCA for calculating present worth of costs will undoubtedly continue to be used in the pavement field as a primary tool. However, using a rate-of-return or cost-effectiveness formulation, especially for medium- to longer-term life-cycle periods, should be given more consideration.Sustainability is important for the projects because if not that may result to a huge impact on the environment. As a result there is a pressure in order to examine projects more sustainably, so that they meet the needs of society without compromising the needs of others or jeopardizing the future survival of humanity on earth. In the current context Value can no be no longer intentified with profit to the stakeholders if environmental and social criteria are, not taken into consideration in the decision making process. Until now several applications have been reported the main aim of which was to increase the sustainable value of industry products. The objective of this paper is to investigate and evaluate the significance of different,policies in Greece suggested for the application of sustainability indices in various phases of projects' value during its life cycle. The application of tools such as Life Cycle Assessment used to estimate the Sustainable Development of projects within Value Analysis framework according to the existing Legislation is also under research. A Questionnaire survey of was carried out in order to obtain experience of project stakeholders academics and government employees involved in implementing sustainability issues. The findings indicate that although sustainability criteria are recognised as essential their use is limited.A survey of Life Cycle Assessment pr
actitioners and a review of related methodological advances and capacity building activities are used to understand LCA advancements for evolutionary and revolutionary electronic products. Issues and recommendations for database, tool development, and methodological issues specific to electronics products are highlighted and discussed. We conclude that electronics sector participation in current LCA initiatives can highlight issues in a way that fosters advancement.Manufacturers in the electronics industry are faced with product shelf life counted in months [1], [2]. Traditionally, this has made it very difficult to make a life cycle assessment (LCA) of a product, since the product would be obsolete by the time the LCA was completed. New concepts in LCA allow specialists in things other than LCA to rapidly create both a model and generate "what-if" scenarios that will allow even manufacturers of short shelf life products take advantage of the benefits of LCA. Results can be used internally for decision-making and can also enable manufacturers submit information for environmentally preferable purchasing, eco-labels, and so-on.Some of the outstanding challenges faced by traditional LCA include the following. LCA is mainly an "output side" method due to its focus on emissions and their impact, but such data are often difficult to find, particularly for emerging technologies. Furthermore, although an important goal of LCA is to evaluate the environmental sustainability of technological alternatives, the very ecosystem goods and services that sustain all economic activities are usually ignored. This paper describes how thermodynamics can complement and enhance LCA by addressing these challenges. Ecosystem goods and services may be represented as the cumulative exergy consumed in ecological processes necessary for producing them. This may be calculated via methods in systems ecology and combined with engineering thermodynamics for joint analysis of industrial and ecological systems. A Thermodynamic Input-Output model of the US economy is developed based on this approach, and is used for hybrid LCA. Accounting for ecosystem goods and services is likely to provide a reasonable proxy to life cycle impact even without knowing details about emissions and their impact. This is because as per the second law, exergy is not conserved, but is lost in each transformation step. The exergy lost to the surroundings creates disorder in the environment, which should be related to the impact of emissions. This implies that among alternatives with similar utility, the process with a higher life cycle thermodynamic efficiency should have a smaller life cycle environmental impact. This talk will present some examples as preliminary support of this hypothesis and describe challenges and on-going work for obtaining a more rigorous statistical validation.The inclusion of modular functional units is often used as an example of how environmental considerations can be incorporated in the design stage of electronic products. The assumption is that the functional units can can be reused at end of life to perform the same task in a different product. The environmental benefit from this practice is only accrued if the feedback loop from recovery to remanufacture is completed. The barriers to the completion of this loop are numerous and concern compatability, reliability, fu
nctionality, flexibility and cost inter alia. This paper discusses the concept of modular digital electronic circuits based on programmable logic device technology and examines their suitability for use in the scheme of an overall Eco-design methodology based on the re-use of such modular units. A comparative streamlined life cycle assessment between this methodology and conventional digital electronics is also conducted to inspect the environmental benefits across the whole life cycle.A life cycle inventory for comparative assessment of assorted semiconductor device types is assembled using a library of process step-related information. In this paper, we present the structure of this library of energy use, material inputs and emissions data at the process equipment-level and facilities-scale, normalized per wafer. Selected results from a case study of a 130nm node CMOS device are presented and compared with a previous study of a comparable chip. Comparative production impacts of 6-layer and 8-layer CMOS devices are shown.The question surrounding "greener" products has always been, "at what cost?" Several decades ago, it was assumed that the product that was easier on the environment would cost more to produce, yet would not command a higher price. Regulations, such as the European WEEE directive, and emissions trading are ways in which governments have changed the market paradigm, rewarding lower polluting manufacturers.The challenges of competing business interest in production process as determined factor for quality products, environment protection, production machinery condition, required parameters for machining and elaborateness for given accuracy. One of solution is the implementation of modern simulating devices and applications of analogy in production practice.Fuel cells in power system use H-2 and O-2 as inputs. H2O, heat and electrical energy are outputs. At first sight it seems that it is total environmental clear technology, without emissions of CO2, CH4, NO2 and other greenhouse gases. But, this is only partly true. Analyzing this energy balance between inputs and outputs, however, is complex. Energy, which is lost to building fuel cell and for hydrogen's production must be taken into account. During that process, greenhouse's gasses are emitted. It is also essential to know which stationary fuel cell system produces the best return on the energy invested in them. This is part of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). This paper provides a comparison of fuel cells and competing conventional systems and points out strengths and weakness using each of them according to environment.Greenhouse cultivation in the high altitude tropics is an important economical activity and the interest to invest in greenhouse technology to improve yield and quality is increasing. The evaluation of the energy use and other burdens associated with protected cultivation have to be accounted for in order to increase sustainability. The aim of this paper was to make a contribution to the applicability of the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology in high tropics tomato greenhouse production as tool to identifity energy use and some environmental impacts, studying a case in the BogotA Plateau (Colombia). Overall energy costs for tomato production were calculated at 1108.7 MJ.ton(-1), which is extremely low when compared to the energy use in northern Europe. Th
e land use indicator was estimated at 38.5 m(2).y(-1) .t(-1) and a water consumption of 28 L-kg(-1). High potential emissions of N and P were estimated in relation with high concentrations applied in nutrient solutions and an elevated water use. Improvements in tomato yields and water use efficiency, enhancing the level of technology, are the key factors for reducing environmental impact. The adaptation of impact indicators will be necessary to apply LCA methodology in high tropical farming systems.With the rapid development of technologies and the turbulent market environment, manufacturing industry is challenged with the task of designing customized products in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Systematically capturing and transforming customer, competitor, and manufacture's own information into various product development stages became vital for a manufacture stays in a competitive position. The purpose of this research is to establish a manufacturer-centralized environment for manufacturer to stay in a competitive position with particular focus on the issues of product life cycle, supplier selection and knowledge allocation. To effectively analysis information and to provide solutions, multiple techniques including Quality Function Deployment, Theory of Inventive Problem Solving, and Analytical Hierarchy Process/Analytical Network Process have been integrated with the Web Service and Enterprise JavaBeans technologies to implement the environment.In recent years there has been an expansion in protected horticulture in Mediterranean countries. This expansion has resulted in important economic advances, especially for marginal areas. Searching to improve yields and production quality, some growers have introduced different climate management systems such as cooling, forced ventilation and fog systems. However, the incorporation of this equipment has led to an increase in the consumption of energy and other resources. The aim of this paper is to quantify the environmental impact, investment and yield necessary to justify this major investment in energy and materials from an environmental and economic point of view. A naturally ventilated greenhouse with a sweet pepper crop was taken as a reference. Life Cycle Assessment tools were used to evaluate the environmental performance of the different cooling systems. We evaluated impact categories such as energy consumption, climate change and the depletion of non-renewable resources. Our results showed that the incorporation of cooling control equipments could generally only be justified, from an environmental and economic point of view, by an increase in production that was not always possible to achieve in our climate conditions. Forced ventilation had the greatest impact upon most of the environmental categories. Furthermore, improving natural ventilation by increasing the opening surface of the ventilators could represent an efficient way of supplying more environmental friendly produce.A life-cycle analysis facilitates generation of cost-effective competitive solutions for designing and managing civil infrastructure systems from a long-term perspective. With this approach, one can appropriately balance several competing objectives, such as reducing life-cycle cost and enhancing lifetime performance. In this paper, several innovative techniques for life-cycle assessment and life extension
 of structures are reviewed. These include work developed at the University of Colorado at Boulder and at the Technical University of Braunschweig.The fatigue behaviour of welded structures depends on local characteristics of the weldment within the geometry of the weld, the cyclic material properties of the different weld zones and residual stresses, so that welded joints can often turn out as failure-relevant weak points. In the presented project different measurement techniques were examined with the aim to use the related parameters in a simple life prediction model. A laser triangulation sensor was used to examine the notch geometry in order to identify possible crack initiation sites. X-ray diffraction was used to analyse the residual stresses due to the welding processes and their alteration during fatigue loading. Additionally the change of different micromagnetic parameters like the Barkhausen noise and the coercivity were controlled with an easy to handle magnetic multi parameter device with the aim to correlate the magnetic parameters with different stages of fatigue damage. The results of the experiments with different types of specimens show a rather good agreement between the predicted and the real life time.A business model of simulation-oriented process design is presented, including life cycle assessment (LCA) and related activities such as mulit-objective decision making. Type-zero method of integrated definition language (IDEF0) is employed as an activity modelling tool to describe the entire business model. The whole design procedure is described hierarchically With focus oil LCA related activities i.e., perform LCA is defined as a sub-activity of evaluate processes which is further a part of the top level activity, design chemical process. The economic evaluation is defined as an activity concurrent to LCA, enabling multi-objective evaluation and optimization of the process. The roles of decision-support activities Such as sensitivity or uncertainty analysis are discussed in detail. Use of IDEF0 enabled detailed and at the same time transparent definition of the whole design procedure. A case study is performed oil the design of chemical recycling processes of beverage PET bottles, which is currently an important topic in Japan. The proposed design procedure is demonstrated step by step, with focus on the multi-objective process assessment. Among several alternatives the Pareto-optimal ones are identified.An alternative and cost-effective solution to building integrated PV systems is to use hybrid photovoltaic/thermal (PV/T) solar systems. These systems consist of PV mod ales with an air channel at their rear surface, where ambient air is circulating in the channel for PV cooling and the extracted heat can be used for building thermal needs. To increase the system thermal efficiency, additional glazing is necessary, but this results in the decrease of the PV module electrical output from the additional optical losses of the solar radiation. PV/T solar systems with air heat extraction have been extensively studied at the University of Patras. Prototypes in their standard form and also with low-cost modifications have been tested, aiming to achieve improved PV/T systems. An energetic and environmental assessment for the PV and PV/T systems tested has been performed by the University of Rome 'La Sapienza'. implementing t
he specific software SimaPro 5.1 regarding the life-cycle assessment (LCA) methodology applied. In this paper electrical and thermal energy output results for PV and PV/T systems are given, focusing on their performance improvements and environmental impact, considering their construction and operation requirements. The new outcome of the study was that the glazed type PVIT systems present optimum performance regarding energy, cost and LCA results. Copyright (c) 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to introduce a new qualitative method that is theoretically underpinned by cognitive anthropology. This research strategy is introduced to further advance the understanding of complex green consumer behavior-in this case life-cycle analysis. Design/methodology/approach - This paper examines the contextual aspects of problem-solving behavior of green, environmentally concerned consumers. Cognitive anthropology develops a different, yet complementary, understanding of consumer cognition to a psychological approach. Through the concepts of practical thinking and bricolage, cognition and behavior are conceptualized on a contextual basis. Such an approach encourages a reassessment of how consumer research has traditionally conceptualized problem framing, information search, information processing and related concepts. The paper draws upon in-depth, qualitative interviews with a wide range of green consumers from both the UK and Germany. Findings - The findings provide some interesting clues regarding the nature of information search and information processing. In the sample, the green consumers of the top clusters were able to see and retrieve life-cycle information as it was offered by a shopping context and it was this context, as it is perceived by the bricoleur that ultimately limits information search and processing. Within the "objective" bounds of a choice context, skilful practical thinking and bricolage was shown in different degrees amongst the clusters, with considerable creativity shown in "seeing" life-cycle information. Research limitations/implications - Given that the research outlined in this paper is mono-paradigmatic, it is suggested that a future avenue for research in green consumer behavior would be the use of a multiple paradigm approach. Practical implications - The paper outlines a stepping approach to marketing communications directed towards the green, or potentially green consumer, suggesting that some form of community based social marketing program might be a useful educational tool given the findings presented. Originality/value -The introduction of a new research strategy-cognitive anthropology to the study of green consumer behavior.The use of different materials for the same energy system component affects both the system efficiency and tire amount of CO2 released during production and utilization. In most cases however, the environmental impact is influenced mainly by system utilization and to a lesser extent by the materials used for system production. The main objective of this paper is the implementation of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) as a way to reduce the CO2 released from a product during its life cycle. Domestic Solar Hot Water Systems (DSHWS) employing different materials for the solar collector will be used as an example.Before new technologies enter the market, their environmen
tal superiority over competing options must be asserted based on a life cycle approach. However, when applying the prevailing status-quo Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach to future renewable energy systems, one does not distinguish between impacts which are 'imported' into the system due to the 'background system' (e.g. due to supply of materials or final energy for the production of the energy system), and what is the improvement potential of these technologies compared to competitors (e.g. due to process and system innovations or diffusion effects). This paper investigates a dynamic approach towards the LCA of renewable energy technologies and proves that for all renewable energy chains, the inputs of finite energy resources and emissions of greenhouse gases are extremely low compared with the conventional system. With regard to the other environmental impacts the findings do not reveal any clear verdict for or against renewable energies. Future development will enable a further reduction of environmental impacts of renewable energy systems. Different factors are responsible for this development, such as progress with respect to technical parameters of energy converters, in particular, improved efficiency; emissions characteristics; increased lifetime, etc.; advances with regard to the production process of energy converters and fuels; and advances with regard to 'external' services originating from conventional energy and transport systems, for instance, improved electricity or process heat supply for system production and ecologically optimized transport systems for fuel transportation. The application of renewable energy sources might modify not only the background system, but also further downstream aspects, such as consumer behavior. This effect is, however, strongly context and technology dependent. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A methodology for enabling engineering-valid optimal design of sustainable construction is presented. It includes a research step: Design-variable Grouping, and two design steps: Generating the Within-group Optimization, and Solution Integration. The first step separates the design-variables into several distinct groups, enabling splitting the total all-encompassing optimization problem into several smaller optimization activities, while ensuring that superposition of the distinct sets of optimal solutions provides the optimal combination for the entire building. Four groups were recognized: production & construction, operational energy, maintenance to demolition, and an integrated group. For each group the most suitable objective function was established. The grouping is based on the range of environmental damage associated with every design variable's alternatives. Application, including a sensitivity analysis, demonstrated that for an office module grouping depends on climate characteristics and type of fuel used for electricity production, whereas for the same fuel, electricity production technology does not alter it.In the UK, between 4 and 5% of the municipal solid waste stream is composed of clothes/textiles, Approximately 25% of this is recycled by companies such as the Salvation Army Trading Company Limited (SATCOL) who provide a collection and distribution infrastructure for 'donated' clothing and shoes. Textiles can be reused or undergo a processing stage and enter a recycling st
ream. Research was conducted in order to quantify the energy used by a reuse/recycling operation and whether this resulted in a net energy benefit. The energy footprint,IS quantified using a streamlined life cycle assessment (LCA), an LCA restricted in scope in order to target specific aspects of the footprint. in this case energy consumption. Taking into account extraction of resources, manufacture of materials. electricity generation, clothing collection, processing and distribution and final disposal of wastes it was demonstrated that for every kilogram of virgin cotton displaced by second hand clothing approximately 65 kWh is saved, and for every kilogram of polyester around 90 kWh is saved. Therefore, the reuse and recycling of the donated clothing results in a reduction in the environmental burden compared to purchasing new clothing made from virgin materials. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.A model for building integrated photovoltaic systems has been developed and implemented in a dynamic simulation tool. This tool takes into account the thermal interactions between the PV collector and the building. The influence of the type of integration upon the PV collector efficiency has been evaluated and hybrid PV/air collectors have been studied. An overall efficiency is defined, including the production of electricity and heat. A case study has been performed on two different typical buildings. In the case of a multi-crystalline silicon PV collector integrated on the roof of a single family house located in Paris, the efficiency of unventilated PV modules fixed on the roof is 14%. If the PV collector is used to preheat the ventilation air, the efficiency reaches 20%. A proper building integration also improves the environmental balance of PV technologies over their life cycle. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In life cycle assessment (LCA) of solar PV systems, energy pay back time (EPBT) is the commonly used indicator to justify its primary energy use. However, EPBT is a function of competing energy sources with which electricity from solar PV is compared, and amount of electricity generated from the solar PV system which varies with local irradiation and ambient conditions. Therefore, it is more appropriate to use site-specific EPBT for major decision-making in power generation planning. LCA and life cycle cost analysis are performed for a distributed 2.7 kW(p) grid-connected monocrystalline solar PV system operating in Singapore. This paper presents various EPBT analyses of the solar PV system with reference to a fuel oil-fired steam turbine and their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and costs are also compared. The study reveals that GHG emission from electricity generation from the solar PV system is less than one-fourth that from an oil-fired steam turbine plant and one-half that from a gas-fired combined cycle plant. However, the cost of electricity is about five to seven times higher than that from the oil or gas fired power plant. The environmental uncertainties of the solar PV system are also critically reviewed and presented. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A complex interdisciplinary approach to the reliability assessment of reinforced concrete structures is introduced and demonstrated on a real existing structure. The reliability index of the structure drops down during its life cycle due to mate
rial degradation. A retrofitting to the desired reliability level should be performed. This procedure is modelled by advanced life-cycle computer simulation. The main feature of the presented approach is the nonlinear finite element analysis of the structure employed for the realistic assessment of structural behaviour. A suitable technique of statistical sampling, which allows relatively small number of simulations, is used in this context. Analytical deterioration models combined with in situ monitoring are used to launch the degradation process. The presented methodology for advanced life-cycle analysis integrated in an innovative decision-making tool that supports maintenance planning of bridges and in general of engineering structures.The greening of product innovation process has been under study by researchers, but mostly it is at an anecdotal level. Extant literature asks for empirical study to explore how to make greener products more successful at the market place. This paper reports on a survey of environmental new product development (ENPD) projects in North America wherein influences on the market performance are investigated. New activities such as design for environment/life cycle analysis and supplier involvement for environmental responsiveness are identified in the ENPD process. The paper uses hierarchical regression method to find relative and incremental impact of eco-innovation activities in ENPD projects on market performance. Factors that influence market performance of greener products are found to be cross-functional co-ordination between new product development professionals and environmental specialists, supplier involvement, market focus and life cycle analysis. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.A rating system, used to compare the environmental damage caused by vehicles, in order to allow decision-makers to draw (non-)fiscal policies and measures taking into account their impact on the environment, is analysed and evaluated. The analysis of rating systems comprises the study of the effects on numerous receptors such as ecosystems, buildings, and human beings (e.g. cancer, respiratory diseases, etc.) caused by different types of pollutions (acid rain, photochemical air pollution, noise pollution, and global warming, etc.). The methodology described, known as Ecoscore, is based on a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach which considers the contribution of emissions to certain types of damage (e.g. by using the Exposure-Response damage function). Total emissions include oil extraction, transport and refinery, fuel distribution, and electricity generation and distribution (Well-to-Wheel approach). Emissions due to the production, use, and dismantling of the vehicle (Cradle-toGrave approach) could be considered as well. Assessment is made possible by normalising the different types of damage. A reference value assigned to a predetermined reference vehicle is defined as a target value (the normalised value thus determines a kind of 'distance to target' consideration). The contribution of the different normalised types of damage to a single value, Ecoscore, is based on a panel weighting method. This new approach has been especially developed for the evaluation of the environmental damage caused by vehicle emissions in an urban context, such as the Brussels Capital Region and differs in that option from other 
methodologies. Additionally this methodology does not only consider conventional vehicles, but it can also assess all alternative fuels and propulsion systems with new vehicle technologies, such as electric and hybrid vehicles. A detailed description of the methodology itself can be found in reference [1]. In this paper the methodology is summarised and illustrated by some examples of Ecoscore calculation. Additionally new recent amendments of the methodology are highlighted. Finally, a sensitivity analysis demonstrates the robustness of the Ecoscore model.Assessment of long-term leaching from MSWI air-pollution-control (APC) residues is discussed with respect to use in environmental impact assessment, such as life-cycle assessment (LCA). A method was proposed for estimating leaching as a function of the liquid-to-solid (L/S) ratio in a long-term perspective (L/S 5000 l/kg). Data for changes in residue pH as a function of L/S was used in combination with pH dependent leaching data to predict leachate concentrations of Al. Ca. Cd. Ba. Mg. Ni. Pb. S, Pb. V and Zn as a function of L/S. Mass balance calculations were used to determine the element fractions leached with respect to L/S. The estimated long-term leaching from a semi-dry residue and a fly ash was compared with short-term leaching determined by batch tests at L/S 10 l/kg, both carbonated and non-carbonated versions of the residues were investigated. Generally, very high L/S ratios above 2000 l/kg were required to leach 20-30% of the solid contents. However. Ca and S were depleted at L/S 200-900 l/kg. The long-term leachate concentrations were round to either remain at the same level as the initial leaching determined by the L/S 10 batch test. or to significantly decrease compared with the initial leaching. Only Al and Zn were found to show higher leachate concentrations at L/S ratios above 3000-5000 l/kg. Carbonation generally prolonged the time needed for depletion from the solid residues: however. Ca and S were depleted faster than in the case of non-carbonated residues. This Study shows that uncritical use of batch leaching data for assessing the potential leaching is highly problematic, and evaluations of residue disposal should include scenario specific quantification Of the long-term leaching. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Leachate emissions from landfill sites are of concern. primarily due to their toxic impact when released unchecked into the environment, and the potential for landfill sites to generate leachate for many hundreds of years following closure. Consequently. economically and environmentally sustainable disposal options are a priority in waste management. One potential option is the use of soil-plant based remediation schemes. In many cases, using either trees (including short rotation coppice) or grassland. phytoremediation of leachate has been Successful. However, there are a significant number of examples where phytoremediation has failed. Typically, this failure can be ascribed to excessive leachate application and poor management due to a fundamental lack of understanding of the plant-soil system. On balance, with careful management. phytoremediation can be viewed as a sustainable. cost effective and environmentally sound option which is capable of treating 250 m(3) ha(-1) yr(-1). However. these schemes have a requirement for large land areas a
nd must be capable of responding to changes in leachate quality and quantity, problems of scheme establishment and maintenance. continual environmental monitoring and seasonal patterns of plant growth. Although the fundamental underpinning science is well understood, further work is required to create long-term predictive remediation models, full environmental impact assessments. a complete life-cycle analysis and economic analyses for a wide range of landfill scenarios. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.This paper describes the development of the Waste Analysis Software Tool for Environmental Decisions (WASTED) model. This model provides a comprehensive view of the environmental impacts of municipal solid waste management systems. The model consists of a number of separate submodels that describe a typical waste management process: waste collection, material recovery, composting, energy recovery from waste and landfilling. These submodels are combined to represent a complete waste management system. WASTED uses compensatory systems to account for the avoided environmental impacts derived from energy recovery and material recycling. The model is designed to provide solid waste decision-makers and environmental researchers with a tool to evaluate waste management plans and to improve the environmental performance of solid waste management strategies. The model is user-friendly and compares favourably with other earlier models. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.Waste from traditional markets in Indonesia is the second largest stream of municipal solid waste after household waste. It has a higher organic fraction and may have greater potential to be managed on a business scale compared to household wastes. The attributed reason is that in general the wastes generated from traditional markets are more uniform, more concentrated and less hazardous than waste from other sources. This paper presents the results of environmental and economic assessments to compare the options available for traditional market waste disposal in Indonesia. The options compared were composting in labour intensive plants, composting in a centralised plant that utilised a simple wheel loader, centralised biogas production and landfill for electricity production. The current open dumping practice was included as the baseline case. A life cycle assessment (LCA) was used for environmental analysis. All options compared have lower environmental impacts than the current practice of open dumping. The biogas production option has the lowest environmental impacts. A cost-benefit analysis, which considered greenhouse gas savings, was used for the economic assessment. It was found that composting at a centralised plant is the most economically feasible option under the present Indonesian conditions. The approach reported in this study could be applied for 'a pre-feasibility first cut comparison' that includes environmental aspects in a decision-making framework for developing countries even though European emission factors were used. Crown Copyright (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.In this paper, life cycle assessment methodology has been used to assess the variations in water use associated with different metal production and processing routes and provide insights into the value derived from water usage in the minerals sector. Using wate
r consumption data derived from the literature it has been shown that the 'cradle-to-gate' water consumption (or embodied water) for production of the various metals considered in the study ranged from 2.9 m(3)/t for steel up to 252 087 m(3)/t for gold. The results largely reflect the grade of the initial ore used to produce each metal, and can be approximated by the following equation: W = 167.7 G(-0.9039) where: W = embodied water (m(3)/t refined metal) G = grade of ore used to produce metal (per cent metal) The study showed that indirect water consumption in the metal production life cycle, in particular that due to electricity generation, can make a significant contribution to the embodied water value, eg aluminium production. When expressed in terms of m3/t ore, the results for all metals considered indicated that the embodied water is roughly, on average, three times the water consumption of the mining and concentration stage. It was also shown that the economic value per m(3) of water consumed for the minerals industry exceeds that for the agricultural and industrial sectors, supporting the view that allocating water resources to the minerals industry has a strong underlying economic basis. Water reforms currently taking place in Australia aim to address issues such as competition for water access, reduced security of supply and increase in cost. Consequently the minerals industry, along with others, can be expected to come under increasing pressure to reduce fresh or raw water use and to integrate water use across sectors. While water recycling is an obvious candidate to help reduce water consumption in the minerals industry. issues such as water quality, among others, will influence the extent to which this can be achieved. In addition, wastewater volumes can be minimised using techniques such as pinch analysis to establish and use the minimum water requirement for the process. The use of dry or near-dry processing technologies. for which the demand for water is small or zero, may be a more radical solution to the water consumption problem; however, it is possible that the introduction of dry processing would bring with it a new set of problems, including dust.This paper aims to propose a methodological framework for quantifying the reduction and increase of health risks associated with urban wastewater systems. A risk assessment model was used to quantify reduction in disease burden while a life cycle assessment approach was used to quantify increasing risks by environmental loading. Disability adjusted life years (DALYs) was used to quantify health risks. This framework was applied to a hypothetical watershed to evaluate health risks by installation of wastewater treatment systems. In this hypothetical case, 55 DALYs per year of health risk would be reduced for 200,000 people in the downstream community by constructing wastewater systems for 200,000 people, while a range from 1.9 to 22 DALYs per year of health risks would be generated by materials and energy consumption for construction and operation of wastewater systems. However, this result would significantly change, depending on the parameters used in this analysis. The proposed methodology should be improved to obtain more precise results, but it will suggest useful information to discuss the overall effects due to the installation of various types of urban wastewater sys
tems.In this paper we aim at the process to increase the reliability of a product green degree assessment as a research object, analyze the assessment system function structure from the conceptual design point of view, then we present a concept of Autonomous Work Unit(AWU), which to be the building blocks to construct an experts collaborative work model. With an example of AHP method to implement Life Cycle Assessment(LCA), we introduce a reverse-judgment method into the assessment process to increase the quality of experts' data. On implementation, we carry out an experts-collaborative work platform model with a reverse-judgment mechanism, and discuss some key technologies in the model. Models above compose the conceptual framework for Product Green degree collaborative Assessment. This framework acts as the groundwork of a concept and method to increase the quality of the assessment, and, besides of the application of green degree assessment, this framework can also be used in all phases during a product life cycle such as design, manufacturing, servicing, maintenance and so on. The objective of this study is to measure and evaluate the interactions among various variables in the complex urban ecosystem (CUE), through employing an equilibrium model, a metabolism model and a harmonious development model. Based on a theory of the complex urban ecosystem (including society economy and nature) with metabolic function, a system of indicators is developed for evaluating urban ecosystem, through using factor analysis (FA), the analytic hierarchy process (AHP), and a synthetic index. The urban metabolism model and the urban harmonious development model are constructed and then are employed to measure and evaluate the interactions among various variables for Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Tianjin, Chongqing, and Shenzhen. The urban metabolism model illustrates how the conversion of resources into useful products and wastes is similar to human metabolic processes or those of an ecosystem, and accounts for how the basic metabolic concept has been extended to include the livability of the CUE from a human perspective so that the socioeconomic aspects of sustainability are integrated with the environmental aspects. This means that the best way to reduce the impacts of socioeconomic development would be reduction of the resource inputs. On the other hand, the sustainability of development of a city is not only simply reduction of the metabolic flows (resource inputs and waste outputs), but also increase of the livability of the city, measured here by the recycling degree. There are two potential ways to purify the metabolites produced by the CUE: (1) reclamation of wastes, (2) making wastes harmless for the natural ecosystem. The harmonious development model presents the urban developmental trends by the developmental degree and the harmonious degree in response to the relationships between development pressure and carrying capacity in CUE. This model shows that the socioeconomic development pressure and the carrying capacity of the natural ecosystem are competing processes, and that ecological improvement is most possible when the socioeconomic development pressures are small and the carrying capacity of the natural ecosystem is large. At last some conclusions drew about the recycling degree, developmental degree, and the harmonious degree in six Chi
nese cities show that the key factors of urban sustainable development are the decrease of socioeconomic development pressure, the protection of natural ecosystem, and the raising of urban metabolism function. To reach such goals, each city must strengthen its potential for sustainable development, and must consider the recycling degree and the harmonious degree to define the break-even point for improving the health and livability of CUE.Although strategies to tackle obesity have led to renewed debate about the relationship between the body and urban form the (im)mobilities of fat through bodies, cities, and infrastructure reveal a complex web of urban metabolisms. We argue that, to understand the mobilities of fat in a city context, metaphors of urban metabolism become important. The relationships between different flows are contingent and the mobilities of fat in bodies (as individuals), cities (as a collective site of action), and sewers (as infrastructure), we argue, highlight a multiplicity of urban metabolisms, each with different interconnectivities and forms of instability. In the paper we show how, in North America, in response to the rising numbers of 'obese bodies' there has been the mobilisation of the concept of 'fat cities', involving renewed debate about the relationship between bodies and the city, provoked largely by the innovative representations of Mens Fitness magazine. However, we shift focus to highlight the problems of fat in infrastructure, focusing specifically on the experience in US cities of sewer blockages that reveal quite different sets of processes within which fat is embedded. Strategies of intervention at the level of the body, the city collective, and the sewer involve prevention, removal, and acceptance, each revealing a multiplicity of metabolisms as well as the partial interconnections between them.Cities are a key driver of environmental and climatic change, and at the same time significantly impacted by that change. Vulnerability varies spatially and over time, and the complex relationships among climate, ecosystem health, and socioeconomic development call for an integrated theoretical framework within which to study the world's cities. Advances in the fields of industrial ecology, urban metabolism and urban ecology shed light on these relationships. However, much of the current research is found in the form of case studies. Though detailed and relevant, the lack of a cohesive theory precludes standardization of and comparison between methodical experiments pertaining to the relationship between urban systems and global climate change. Aiming to identify and connect underlying issues, and to drive research forward, this study is a synthesis of key emergent theories and continuities in the body of research surrounding urban systems and global change. Thinking of cities as complex open systems integrated within a larger environmental and social context brings us closer to understanding how cities impact/are impacted by climate change and variability. The physical realism and interdisciplinary nature of a unified urban systems theory will facilitate more grounded and effective policy to shape and govern our cities.
